From: "John A. Kingman" <kingman@austin.ibm.com>
Subject: Item #318: Administrivia: OFWG Agenda for March Meeting
Date: Wed, 28 Feb 96 15:57:53 -0600


Dear Open Firmware Working Group Members,

Attached is the agenda for the Open Firmware Working Group meeting to be
held at Apple Computer, Cupertino, CA on Tuesday March 5, 1996 and
Wednesday March 6, 1996.  See below for directions to the meeting.

Please check below for any Action Items assigned to you. For those with
Action Items who cannot come to the meeting, please send me the status of
your item(s) by e-mail by 8:00AM Central Time Monday, March 4, 1996.

Thanks.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Times are Pacific Time:

Tuesday March 5, 1996

     8:45AM     - Meet at Apple, (see note below for directions)
                     Light breakfast to be provided by Apple.
     9:00AM     - Introduction
                - Review Agenda
                - Administrative/Procedural Items
                - Review and approve minutes from the last meeting
                - Future Meetings
                - Standard Progress Report
                     P1275.3 (VME - IEEE 1014 bus)
                        - Motorola's position (Bruce ?)
                     P1275.6: 64-bit Extension Supplement for Open Firmware
                        - Status on experimental compatibility work from
                          David Kahn and/or Mitch Bradley (Action Item #5)
                     P1275.a Errata to 1275-1994 (Core Errata)
                        - waiting to be balloted
                - Old Business
                     Action Items Review (see note below)
                     Other Pending/Tabled items
    12:00M      - Break for LUNCH
     1:00PM     - Document Reviews (including associated proposals, if any)
                     Bindings
                        PCI Bus
                        ISA/EISA/ISA PNP Bus
                        PowerPC Processor
     6:00PM     - Break for the day

Wednesday March 6, 1996

     8:45AM     - Meet at Apple
                     Light breakfast to be provided by Apple.
     9:00AM     - Document Reviews (cont'd)
                     Recommended Practices
                        Generic Names
                     Extensions
                        Device Support
    11:00AM     - New Business
                     New Proposals
    12:00M      - Break for LUNCH
     1:00PM          New Proposals (cont'd)
                     Other New Business
     4:30PM     - Summarize/Assign action items and Wrap up
     5:00PM     - Adjourn


NOTES:
------
Action Items:

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  | No.|Who         |Description                                           |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  1 |Ron H.      |Check on TI licensing/royalty on NuBus that may       |
  |    |            |provide a path to solve this patent issue.            |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  2 |Editors of  |Update document template and contents per discussion. |
  |    |Recommended |                                                      |
  |    |Practice    |                                                      |
  |    |documents   |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  3 |Mitch B.    |Encapsulate #251 to recommended practice document.    |
  |    |            |(Generic Names)                                       |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  4 |David K.    |Standard properties document.                         |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  5 |David K.    |Report on 64-bit experimental work.                   |
  |    |Mitch B.    |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  6 |Ron H.      |Work on "reg"/"assigned-addresses"/base address       |
  |    |David K.    |registers in the PCI binding.                         |
  |    |Greg        |                                                      |
  |    |Jordan B.   |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  7 |Jordan B.   |Work on names, unit-address... in ISA binding         |
  |    |Lilian W.   |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  8 |Mitch B.    |Check on June meeting dates                           |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  9 |Mitch B.    |Work on tristatable bit                               |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 10 |Mitch B.    |Work on map-in                                        |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 11 |Jordan B.   |Reorganize discussion of probing in ISA binding       |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 12 |Jordan B.   |Suggest wording for IRQ 2 vs 9                        |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 13 |Jordan B.   |Add size method for NVRAM                             |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 14 |Jordan B.   |Edit sound stuff                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 15 |Ron H.      |Update ranges properties and usage in PCI binding     |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 16 |Ron H.      |Create proposal on recognizing Forth and FCode image  |
  |    |            |formats.                                              |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 17 |Ron H.      |Prepare proposal for Code Page selection.             |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------


Directions and hotel information (per Ron Hochsprung):

  The meeting will be held in the Nile conference room of Inifinite Loop 3
  (IL3), which is half way around Infinite Loop in the R&D campus on the west
  side of De Anza Blvd, just off I-280.

  For those who are unfamiliar with this neck of the woods, De Anza is also
  known as Sunnyvale-Saratoga Road;  I believe that the signs now read De
  Anza. When coming down south-bound I-280, De Anza is the first Cupertino
  exit after the 85 exits (and, also the first exit after getting from 85 to
  280); it is the exit after Wolfe coming from north-bound I-280.  You want
  to head south on De Anza, which is a right off south-bound 280 (a left off
  north-bound) to Mariani Ave, which is the first light (past the I-280
  overpass exchanges). Take a left onto Mariani, then turn left onto Infinite
  Loop, which is the first street to the left.  IL3 is about half way around
  Infinite Loop.  Each building entrance has a "badge" that displays the
  building name.  Park in one of the lots across Infinite Loop from the
  entrance.  I will alert the security people where the meeting is, etc.

  For those coming from out of town, Apple has a corporate rate for visitors
  at the Cupertino Inn, which is just across I-280 from the R&D campus.  Its
  phone number is:  408-996-7700.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

John Kingman
-- 
  ~_~ ~ ~ ~_~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
  | | ___ | |_ ._ _   | John A. Kingman        | Disclaimer:  Some of the
 _| |/ . \| . || ' |  | Kingman@Austin.IBM.com |  foregoing may or may not 
 \__/\___/|_|_||_|_|  | IBM RSD, Austin, Texas |  reflect IBM's position.



[ P1275 Item #318 -- Received: Wed Feb 28 16:04:03 PST 1996 ]

