Subject: Minutes of IEEE 1275 Committee on 04/25/95
Date: Wed, 17 May 95 10:13:47 -0600
From: "Dr. Luan D. Nguyen" <duyluan@austin.ibm.com>

Dear IEEE 1275-1994 Committee members,
Attached please find the minutes of our last meeting on 04/25/95 at
HAL, CA. Have a nice day.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

1- Attendees

Mitch Bradley  FirmWorks/President (415)961-1302  wmb@firmworks.com
               Chairman IEEE 1275-1994 Committee
David M. Kahn  Sun Microsystems/   (415)336-2784  dmk@Eng.Sun.Com
               Vice Chair IEEE 1275-1994 Committee/
               Firmware/OS Architecture
Luan Nguyen    IBM/Sys. Arch./     (512)838-1292  duyluan@austin.ibm.com
               Secretary IEEE 1275-1994 Committee
Ron Hochsprung Apple/Sys. Arch.    (408)974-2661  ron@apple.com
David Paktor   HAL   		   (408)379-7000 x1366  paktor@hal.com
Mike Segapel   IBM pPS Firmware    (512)838-8428  mikes@austin.ibm.com
Bob Coffin     IBM pPS Arch.       (512)838-8240  coffin@vnet.ibm.com
Ilan Rabinowitz Ilanet             (408)354-9991  ilanet!ir@apple.com
Lilian Leung   Firepower Systems   (415)462-6217  lilian_leung@firepower.com
John Rible     Quicksand           (408)458-0399  jrible@cruzio.com 
David Trissel  Motorola Austin     (512)891-2137 dave_trissel@risc.sps.mot.com
Brian Horn     SunSoft             (310)378-6010  Brian.Horn@west.sun.com
John Dickol    IBM Microelectronics(512)838-6005  dickol@vnet.ibm.com
Martin Walsh   Sun Microsystem     (415)886-2786  martin.walsh@eng.sun.com

2- Review Agenda

Proposed agenda was reviewed and approved 11-0-0.


3- Last meeting minutes review

Vote passed to approve the last meeting minutes with admendment to remove
the note under proposal #226 on bwjoin/lxjoin.


4- Standard Progress Report

1275.3: balloting body formed, IEEE sent reminder to Joe George who is the
new BASC Chair for approval.

1275.4: one negative ballot to request changing scope. The committee currently
doesn't have interest in that new scope and we don't have any will to address it. If necessary, we would say that we will drop the PAR. Economic interest in that simply doesn't exist. If anybody wants it, he(she) can create new PAR.
Furthermore, the committee feels that we don't have a lot of expertise
on this new version of FutureBus+. 
The IEEE has sent Martin Walsh a form for submittal to REVCOM.  Their next
meeting is 14 June with a deadline for submittal of 05 May. AI: Martin/David 
to respond to the negative ballot and then submit to REVCOM (see statement in
"8- P1275.4- Future Bus+" below)

1275.6: balloting body has been formed and approved for balance by the BASC
chairman. The updated supplement/binding to be sent out.
 

5- Action Items Review

The following AIs are still opened:
* Mitch: to follow up TI patent issue with Harrison Beasley. 
* Mitch: to make formal proposals on interposer.
* Kip: to make formal proposal on ARC Terminal.
* Ron: create template for "recommended practice" (Frame in MIF).
* Ron: see 237, 238, 241 and 242.
* David: see 233


6- Future Meetings

June 6, 1995:   to be hosted by Motorola Austin, TX. Motorola
                will also host binding meetings on June 07, 1995.
July 18, 1995:  to be hosted by FirmWorks Inc, Mountain View, CA. Mitch will
                also host July 19, 1995 binding meetings.
Sept. 19, 1995: to be host by IBM Austin, TX. IBM will also host binding
                meetings on Sept 20, 1995.


7- Errata document (.7): ready for next couple weeks to circulate before 
our next meeting. As far as "recommended practice" documents, we have a
dependency on Ron to provide the template.


8- P1275.3-VME Bus

Waiting approval of balloting body from the BASC chairman.


8- P1275.4- Future Bus+

Quorom of 14. 14-0-0 vote to accept the following statement:
"The issues addressed by 896.9 are beyond the original scope of work
undertaken by the 1275.4 working group. This is consistent with the
P1275.4 PAR and the scope as published in the document.
The committee declines to expand the scope to include this additional
work.  The committee feels that it would be more appropriate to address
the issues raised by 896.9 in a separate project."


9- P1275.6- 64 bit extension

Balloting body approved. In balloting process.


10- Proposal status

proposal 250: tabled, AI: David Kahn.

proposal #249: passed - voted 10-0-0. Accept as written.

proposal #264: passed - voted 9-0-2. Accept as written.

proposal #266: rejected -  voted 1-7-3.

proposal #251: committee has reaffirmed the value of #251. AI to Mitch
to encapsulate #251 to recommended practice document.

proposals #252 to #263 and #265: passed - voted 10-0-0. Remanded to the
PowerPC workgroup.

proposal #TBD1: accepted - proposal to be submitted by Ron.


11- Action Items Summary

Old AIs left:
* Mitch: to follow up TI patent issue with Harrison Beasley. 
* Mitch: to make formal proposals on interposer.
* Kip: to make formal proposal on ARC Terminal.
* Ron: create template for "recommended practice" (Frame in MIF).
* Ron: see 237, 238, 241 and 242.
* David: see 233

New AIs:
* Ron: on TI patent issue, check on licensing/royalty on NuBus that may provide
  a path to solve this patent issue.
* Martin: respond to the negative ballot of P1275.4 as directed and submit to
  REVCOM.
* Trissel: check and work with Kip on the ARC terminal.
* Ron: REMEMBER to create the template for "recommneded practice". All of
  "recommended practice" document has dependency on this template.
* Mitch: encapsulate #251 to recommended practice document.
* David: errata document to be circulated before our next meeting on June 06,
  1995. 
* Brian/Lilian/Luan: create SMP binding draft for review.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Dr. Luan D. Nguyen                             Phone: 512-838-1292,t/l 678-1292
System Architect                               Unix:  duyluan@austin.ibm.com
IBM System Technology and Architecture Div.    Vnet:  duyluan at austin
11400 Burnet Road IMAD 9450
Austin, TX 78758


