Subject: Minutes of IEEE 1275 committee meeting on 07/18/95
Date: Wed, 26 Jul 95 11:58:37 -0600
From: "Dr. Luan D. Nguyen" <duyluan@austin.ibm.com>

Dear IEEE 1275-1994 Committee members,

Attached please find the minutes of our last meeting on July 18th, 1995 at
FirmWorks, Mountain View, CA.
Also please remind that: (1) our next meeting will be on September 19th at
IBM, Austin, TX , and (2) please also check the "Action Item Summary" at the
end of this note for your action items.
Thank you and have a nice day.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

1- Attendees

Mitch Bradley  FirmWorks/President (415)961-1302  wmb@firmworks.com
               Chairman IEEE 1275-1994 Committee
David M. Kahn  Sun Microsystems/   (415)336-2784  dmk@Eng.Sun.Com
               Vice Chair IEEE 1275-1994 Committee/
               Firmware/OS Architecture
Luan Nguyen    IBM/Sys. Arch./     (512)838-1292  duyluan@austin.ibm.com
               Secretary IEEE 1275-1994 Committee
Ron Hochsprung Apple/Sys. Arch.    (408)974-2661  ron@apple.com
Mike Segapeli  IBM pPS Firmware    (512)838-8428  mikes@austin.ibm.com
John Dickol    IBM Microelectronics(512)838-6005  dickol@vnet.ibm.com 
Jordan Brown   Sunsoft             (310)348-6039  jordan.brown@west.sun.com
David Paktor   HAL Computer        (408)379-7000 x1366 paktor@hal.com
John Rible     Quicksand           (408)458-0399  jrible@cruzio.com
John Kingman   IBM RSD             (512)838-1546  kingman@austin.ibm.com
Abraham Torres IBM RSD             (512)838-7644  abraham@austin.ibm.com


2- Review Agenda

Proposed agenda was reviewed and approved 9-0-0.


3- Last meeting minutes review

Vote passed to approve the last meeting minutes (9-0-0).


4- Standard Progress Report

1275.3 is still in ballot

1275.4: Recirculation period is over and we are waiting to hear from IEEE.
        AI: Martin to follow up with IEEE and to report back the new status.


1275.6: Ballot closed, but seems like we cannot get enough vote and also wait 
to hear from IEEE. The committee current concensus is that if because of
any reason 1275.6 do not pass IEEE process, we will publish it as an 
recommended practice document.

David Kahn reported that our Web page was created with many interesting
features including but not limited to the Open Firmware song. Now, users
can get to our Web page to access/download/print many different Open Firmware
publications/documents, check out the minutes of our meetings, or
agenda/location of our future meetings.... Committee acknowledged the hardwork
that David have put in (especially his time to be estimated at 3 weeks) and
conveyed our appreciation. Future enhancement ideas are provided to David and
AI to Ron about the link to yahoo. Next time when you surf the net, please
check out our Web home page  http://playground.sun.com/pub/1275 and tell
us how you think.



5- Action Items Review

The following AIs are still opened:
* Mitch: to follow up TI patent issue with Harrison Beasley. Open, pending on
  Ron's effort to check on TI licensing/royalty on NuBusthat may provide a
  path to solve this patent issue. Mitch to also e-mail Ron, Luan and Bob the
  patent number. 
* Dave Trissell: COFF and PE writings are still open. Kip to remind and work
  with Dave.
* All authors/editors of each "recommended practice" documents have action 
  item to update the document template and its contents per discussion
* Mitch: encapsulate #251 to recommended practice document.
* Mitch: encapsulate "interposer" to recommended practice document.
* David Kahn: Standard properties document



6- Future Meetings

Sept. 19, 1995: to be host by IBM Austin, TX. IBM will also host binding
                meetings on Sept 20, 1995.
Oct. 31, 1995:  to be hosted by FirmWorks Inc, Mountain View, CA. Mitch will
                also host November 1st, 1995 binding meetings.
Jan. 16 & 17, 1996: tentatively Motorola Austin, TX. AI: Luan to contact Kip
                to confirm.


7- Errata document (.7): John Rible will have new draft in the next
couple weeks.


8- Recommended Practice boiler template:

The following is the text for 1.3 boiler template for recommended practice 
documents that was approved by the committee during this meeting:

* Typo on internet address to change to http://playground.sun.com/pub/1275
* Boiler plate to relate version number with proposal number.
* Committee agreed to bump version number every time we change documents from
draft to approved version.
AI: David Kahn to send to Ron sections on definitions to be put in the
template.
AI: Ron to add line number to the template.


9- Open Firmware: Recommended Practice - 16-color Text Extension

Committee agreed to change the word "light" to "bright"  (e.g light blue to 
bright blue...).

Committee also agreed to try out the following to set the current and future 
brightness/color:

    * Notation:
    FG(foreground): brightness, color      EFF FG: brightness, color  
    BG(background): brightness, color      EFF BG: brightness, color
    (note EFF which stands for effective is the actual display)

Esc[1m sets FG brightness to 1
Esc[2m sets FG brightness to 0
Esc[0m sets FG brightness to 0, EFF FG to FG    EFF BG to BG
Esc[7m sets                     EFF FG to BG    EFF BG to FG
Esc[3xm sets FG br to FG br and FG color to x
Esc[4xm sets BG br to FG br and BG color to x

Note: if you are in inverse mode and you do 3xm, BG is undefined.


10- Open Firmware Recommended Practice - 8-bit Graphics Extension

Committee agreed to change the name of the methods "color-!" and "color-@" to 
"color!" and "color@".

Committee also agreed on the following geometry text:

     dimensions (-- width height )

     Returns visible width and height in pixels.
     The returned values are the visible dimentsions of the screen in
     the current mode.

     NOTE: Client programs may test for the existance of this method,
     and if it does not exist, use the 'width' and 'height' properties.
     If the method does exist, it's return values may differ from the
     static property values.

11- Proposals:

#275: Withdrawn by John Kingman

#276 to 278: Remanded to PowerPC Binding Committee

12- New Issues:

     a-Request of two new FCodes from David Paktor: Committee response is 
       to use tokenizer rather than add new official FCode.

     b-Softex identifies 5 items: 
       1- size-method: issue solved.
       2- the use of offset-hi and offset-low: committee agreed to create a
          binding to recommend it as recommended practice.
       3- the PReP document should add information on block device class 
          and state them as recommended practice.
       4- Add to devices extension document a paragraph to specify an 
          additional requirement: SCSI devices shall implement properties 
          and methode defined by section E.1 to section E.5 of the base IEEE
          1275 document. 
          Note: this will effectively raise the status of these sections from 
          informative to normative.
       5- Add to devices extension document a new section for block and byte
          devices to specify an additional requirement.
          Add size-method  and number-block method provided in the proposal
          #248.
          Also add: offset-low returns least significant cell of the double
          number denoting the beginning offset of the partition of the disk
          device that was specified when the disk-label support package was 
          opened. In general that offset is obtained by executing the offset
          method of the disk-label support package with an argument of zero.
          It is permissible for the disk package to execute the disk-label 
          support package's offset method was after opening that support 
          package storing the result for later use. 
          Offset-high is the most significant cell of the double number...
          (the rest of the paragraph is similar to offset-low)

     c- ARC Terminal: committee reviewed the document from Kip. AI: Kip to 
        update as discussed.



13- Action Items Summary

Old AIs left:
 See section 5 on Action Items Review in this note.

New AIs:
 * David Kahn to send to Ron sections on definitions to be put in the
   recommended practice boiler template.
 * Ron Hochsprung to add line number to the recommended boiler template.
 * 16-bit color text extension and 8-bit graphics extension to be updated 
   as discussed by the editor.
 * Mike Segapeli to update the devices extensions document as described in 
   section 12 above.
 * Kip to update the ARC terminal document and follow up with Dave Trissell
   on COFF and PE writings.


