Subject: Minutes of IEEE 1275 committee meeting on 09/19/95
Date: Fri, 29 Sep 95 13:12:31 -0600
From: "Dr. Luan D. Nguyen" <duyluan@austin.ibm.com>

Dear IEEE 1275-1994 Committee members,

Attached please find the minutes of our last meeting on 09/19/95 at IBM
Austin, TX.
Also please remind that: (1) our next meeting will be on October 31st at
FirmWorks Inc., Mountain View, CA , and (2) check the "Action Item Summary" 
at the end of this note for your action items.
Thank you and have a nice day.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

1- Attendees

Mitch Bradley  FirmWorks/President (415)961-1302  wmb@firmworks.com
               Chairman IEEE 1275-1994 Committee
Luan Nguyen    IBM/Sys. Arch./     (512)838-1292  duyluan@austin.ibm.com
               Secretary IEEE 1275-1994 Committee
Ron Hochsprung Apple/Sys. Arch.    (408)974-2661  ron@apple.com
Brian Moore    IBM STAD            (914)435-5700  bbmoore@pkedvm9.rscs
Mike Segapeli  IBM pPS Firmware    (512)838-8428  mikes@austin.ibm.com
John Dickol    IBM Microelectronics(512)838-6005  dickol@vnet.ibm.com 
John Kingman   IBM RSD             (512)838-1546  kingman@austin.ibm.com
Lilian Walter  FirePower Systems   (415)462-6217  lwalter@Firepower.com
Bob Coffin     IBM pPS Arch.       (512)838-8240  coffin@ausvm6.austin.ibm.com
Tracy Hallock  Motorola            (512)891-6905  Tracy_Hallock@sps.mot.com


2- Review Agenda

Proposed agenda was reviewed and approved (7-0-0).


3- Last meeting minutes review

Approve the last meeting minutes (7-0-0).


4- Standard Progress Report

1275.3:
* Balloting is extended due to a high level of non-response. David Paktor have
  been sent a list of non-respondents, and have yet to get on their respective
  cases.
* An editable copy has been sent to IEEE headquarters.
* David Paktor reported that there is some question about the use of the word
  "Supplement" in the title, and in the PAR, but because all of the other
  extensions have also been called "Supplement"s, there is a tendency to let
  well enough alone.
  David Paktor clarified to me on 09/27/1995 that the IEEE editorial staff
  is the one who asked the question.
* There is also a question about the particular PAR for 1275.3: The original
  PAR named the VME 1014 standard in general, while the document specifically
  addresses VME 1014-1987 version and specifically excluded the not-yet
  solidified VME-64 version. This can most likely be resolved with a request
  to modify the PAR, especially in light of the fact that the VME-64
  standardization effort is no longer under the auspices of the IEEE, but
  rather of the break-away stand-alone group called VITA.
  AI to Tracy to find out Motorola's position on VME supplement 1275.3.


1275.4: 
* Martin has sent the electronic copy of P1275.4 to the IEEE for editting.
  He has not heard anything from the editor.
* We have received one disapproval and comment from the Revcom commitee.
  It is regarding our declining to change the standard to accomodate
  our one dissenting vote. 
  Martin believes that what Mr. Thompson would like is addressed by the 
  excerpt that he found in the our minutes of the 6 June meeting. The 
  exceprt clearly documents the commitee's position stated in our response
  to the 1275.4 negative voter.


1275.6:  The ballot is closed, but we cannot get enough votes including the
ones from our committee because compatibility problem was detected with
current definition.
Experimental work is going on to avoid breaking compatibility between 32-bit
and 64-bit FCode executing environment due to the modification of arithmetic
and comparison operation. Apparently, some existing FCodes have hidden 32-bit
FCode executing environment in themselves. 
AI: Mitch/David Kahn to report back to the committee this work in our next meeting.


5- Action Items Review (AI from last meeting)

The following AIs are still opened:
* Mitch: to follow up TI patent issue with Harrison Beasley: Open, pending on
  Ron's effort to check on TI licensing/royalty on NuBusthat may provide a
  path to solve this patent issue. 
* Kip McKlanahan: COFF and PE writings are still open. Kip to remind and work
  with Dave Trissell (minimum subset of PE that Open Firmware has to support).
  Since Dave Trissell is on long-term leave, Kip needs to report to the
  committee the most current status.
* All authors/editors of each "recommended practice" documents have action 
  item to update the document template and its contents per discussion.
* Mitch: encapsulate #251 to recommended practice document.
* David Kahn: Standard properties document.
* David Kahn to send to Ron sections on definitions to be put in the
  recommended
practice boiler template.
* Ron Hochsprung to add line number to the recommended boiler template.
* Ron Hochsprung: our Web page and yahoo.


6- Future Meetings

Oct. 31, 1995:  to be hosted by FirmWorks Inc, Mountain View, CA. Mitch will
                also host November 1st, 1995 binding meetings.
Jan. 16 & 17, 1996: Motorola Austin, TX to be hosted by Kip.
March 05 & 06, 1996: Apple Computer, CA to be hosted by Ron.


7- Errata document (.7): Approval vote to forward the draft 1275.7 D2 for 
   IEEE sponsored balloting (7-0-0) with admendments. David Kahn to check with
   Mitch for the details.


8- ISA/EISA/PnP binding
   The committee reviewed this binding page-by-page. 7-0-0 vote to approve
   this document with admendments. AI: Luan to update the document accordingly.


9- Proposals:

280: Subject: Item #280: Device Support Extensions V0.2, req. for SCSI Devices
280: Closed: passed 7-0-0
281: Subject: Item #281: PReP binding 0.02 halt-address clarification 
281: Closed: Remanded to binding committee
282: Subject: Item #282: PowerPC default mapping mode 
282: Closed: Remanded to binding committee
283: Subject: Item #283: Core Errata: Alias expansion buglette 
283: Closed: passed 7-0-0
284: Subject: Item #284: PR*P binding: disk label algorithm 
284: Closed: Remanded to binding committee
285: Subject: Item #285: Core errata: Another minor error in appendix E 
285: Closed: passed 7-0-0
286: Subject: Item #286: PCI Supp: Order of reg tuples for non-FCode devices 
286: Closed: Remanded to binding committee
287: Subject: Item #287: PCI Supp: Supply examples to clarify address handling
287: Closed: Remanded to binding committee
288: Subject: Item #288: Device Supp: new property for wide SCSI 
288: Closed: Remanded to binding committee
289: Subject: Item #289: Device Ext: add support for multi-initiator SCSI 
289: Closed: Remanded to binding committee
290: Subject: Item #290: PCI Binding: requirements for PCI-PCI bridges 
290: Closed: Remanded to binding committee

13- Action Items Summary

Old AIs left:
 See section 5 on Action Items Review in this note

New AIs:
 Tracy: Motorola's position on 1275.3 VME supplement.
 David Kahn/Mitch: report on 64-bit experimental work in next meeting.
 David Kahn: to update 1275.5 errata document as directed by committee.
 Luan Nguyen: to update ISA/EISA/PnP binding document as directed by committee.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Dr. Luan D. Nguyen                             Phone: 512-838-1292,t/l 678-1292
System Architect                               Unix:  duyluan@austin.ibm.com
IBM System Technology and Architecture Div.    Vnet:  duyluan at austin
11400 Burnet Road IMAD 9450
Austin, TX 78758

