Subject: Minutes of IEEE 1275 Committee on 03/07/95
Date: Fri, 31 Mar 95 15:21:22 -0600
From: "Dr. Luan D. Nguyen" <duyluan@austin.ibm.com>

Dear IEEE 1275-1994 Committee members,
Attached please find the minutes of our last meeting on 03/07/95 at
IBM Austin, TX. Have a nice day.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

1- Attendees
Ron Hochsprung Apple/Sys. Arch.    (408)974-2661  ron@apple.com
Mitch Bradley  FirmWorks/President (415)917-6984  wmb@firmworks.com
               Chairman IEEE 1275-1994 Committee
David M. Kahn  Sun Microsystems/   (415)786-6203  dmk@Eng.Sun.Com
               Vice Chair IEEE 1275-1994 Committee/
               Firmware/OS Architecture
Luan Nguyen    IBM/STA Sys. Arch   (512)838-1292  duyluan@austin.ibm.com
               Secretary IEEE 1275-1994 Committee
Tim Wilkins    Motorola            (512)891-6004  tim-wilkins@email.sps.mot.com
Tracy Hallock  Motorola      (512)891-6905  Tracy-Hollock@riscgate.sps.mot.com
Kip McClanahan Motorola      (512)891-6525  Kip_McClanahan@risc.sps.mot.com   
Mike Segapeli  IBM pPS Firmware    (512)838-8428  mikes@austin.ibm.com
Bob Coffin     IBM pPS Arch.       (512)838-8240  coffin@vnet.ibm.com
John Dickol    IBM                 (512)838-6005  dickol@vnet.ibm.com
Richard Arndt  IBM OS              (512)838-8502  rlarndt@austin.ibm.com   
Jordan Brown   Sunsoft PowerPC     (310)348-6039  jordan.Brown@west.sun.com
David Trissel  Motorola Austin     (512)891-2137  dave_trissel@risc.sps.mot.com
Richard Foos   Motorola            (512)891-3084  rfoos@ntgate.sps.moto.com



2- Review Agenda
Proposed agenda was approved with the following admendments:
* Move 3:45PM session to early afternoon after 1:15PM P1275.6 64-bit extension
session.
* Session 1275.7 at 10:45AM to include discussion on errata document.

3- Standard Progress report
* 1275.4 Futurebus+:
  The following is ballot summary results on 03/06/95:
  29 Affirmative
   1 Negative
   3 Abstentions
  --
  33  -> 78% returned, 9% Abstention
         96% Affirmative
  This meets the criteria passage of the supplement.
  The IEEE has sent Martin Walsh a form for submittal to REVCOM.  Their 
  next meeting is 14 June with a deadline for submittal of 05 May.
  There are only two comments. They are associated with the 1 negative
  vote.  The main one regards including 896.9 extensions. We should address
  it by the next meeting of 25 April so that Martin can respond to the 
  negative ballot and then submit to REVCOM.


* 1275.6 64-bit extension:
  The balloting body has been formed and has been approved for balance
  by the BASC chairman.  The action is now with us to get copies of the
  standard to the office.  This supplement still has a few outstanding
  proposals that need to be addressed later in this meeting so that we can 
  get the ballot process rolling on this one.


* 1275.3 VME:
  The office is preparing to send out the invitation for this one soon.
  David Paktor and Martin Walsh have approved the invitation letter.
  Martin said that they probably plan to do this via email.

4- Last meeting minutes review
Unanimously vote passed to approve the 01/24/95 meeting minutes with an item
to be added in the agenda to review two errata items from Mitch in 10-b.

5- Action Items Review
The committee reviewed and updated the list of action items assigned from our
last meeting. The new updated list is provided at the end of this note.

6- Future Meetings
April 25, 1995: to be hosted by David Paktor, HAL Inc., Campbell, CA. But
                April 26, 1994, PowerPC and PCMCIA bindings meeting will be
                hosted by Ron Hochsprung (Apple location).
June 6, 1995:   to be hosted by Kip McClanahan, Motorola Austin, TX. Motorola
                will also host binding meetings on June 07, 1995.
July 18, 1995:  to be hosted by FirmWorks Inc, Mountain View, CA. Mitch will
                also host July 19, 1995 binding meetings.

7- Status of proposals
210: Closed, Accepted with changes: better branch descriptions (errata)
211: Closed: Accepted with changes: Initial errata list (Core errata)
212: Closed: Withdrawn: Core Document errata: "xxJoin" (Core errata). Replaced
        by 227
213: Closed:Withdrawn: Replaced by 227. "xxSplit and xxJoin" (Core errata)
214: Closed: Resubmitted as 216: token substitution of rl@ & rl! (Core errata)
215: Open: Tabled: Extensible Client Services Package (Recommended Practice)
	Change to "Recommended Practice" (recommended practice archive to be
        published on the net), add
	SCOPE: Any OF implementation that has both a client and FCode
		interface.  (Optional Feature).
	Accepted 9-0-0.
	Closed/Accepted with changes
216: Closed: Accepted: Register-Access words, correction and ... (Core errata)
217: Pending: Tabled; Awaiting new draft. ISA binding *first draft*
	Closed/Will carry agenda items
218: Pending: Tabled. Awaiting new draft. x86 binding *first draft*
	Closed/Will carry agenda items
219: Closed: Administrative use - not a proposal
220: Closed: Administrative use - not a proposal
223: New: Create "Device Extensions to IEEE 1275" document 
	Originally remanded to PowerPC task force.
	Remanded back to 1275-wg to create "common devices" binding.
	Closed/Accepted, AI; Jordan, Create
	Common Devices Binding Recommended Practice.
225: New: Alias expansion bug (core errata)
	Accepted as submitted and to be put in errata document, 8-0-0
	Closed/Accepted
226: New: "Split" and "Join" (64-Bit Extension)
	Change join words to active voice (Combine ...)
	Change split words "will" to "shall"
	Accepted for inclusion in P1275.6 7-0-1
	Closed/Accepted
        No objection to send P1275.7 64 bit extension to sponsored ballot with
        the above proposal #226 editorial changes.
                          ff     ff    bwjoin
                         fff     ff    bwjoin
                    ffff.ffff          lxjoin
227: New: "Split" and "Join" words (Core Errata)
	Change Doc and version to Core Errata
	Change join words to active voice (Combine ...)
	Change split words "will" to "shall"
	Accepted for inclusion in Core Errata 5-0-2
233: New: Core Errata PAR (IEEE P1275.7) 
	Uninamous vote to accept and the committee directs David Kahn to
        submit the PAR as written. See 226.
	Closed/Accepted
234: New: Clarify set-symbol-lookup client intfc. (Core errata) 
	Closed/Accepted 8-0-1
236: New: Change "reg" prop names in PCI binding
	Closed/Withdrawn by authors (rep. Jordan Brown) based on the weight
        of existing implementations. Closed.
237: New: Open Firmware core - Multi-color text
	Create recommended practice, defined scope (recommended
	practice), ammended,
        strongly recommend to all systems that implement device interfaces,
	some color stuff (multi-color display) moved to #238.
	Closed/Accepted 8-1-0 with changes. The one negative vote: reason
        provided is the desire to save memeory at run time.
        AI to Ron to turn this to a recommended practice document.
238: New: Open Firmware - Graphics Extension
        Create recommended practice,
	Move set-colors/get-colors, plus refer to new
	proposal to describe graphics device geometry,
        Pointer to height, width, linebytes, and depth in this document: these
        properties will be undefined for unopened devices and only defined for
        opened devices,
        8-bit frame buffer (640x480).
	Passed Contigent on future proposal to define geomotry, AI to Ron H.
241: New: Item #241: PCI Binding - Legacy devices
	Ammended to Doc/Ver PCI Binding 1.4
        Correction VGA case is 0x00.0100 *or* 0x03.0000: applies to PCI binding
        version 1.4
	Added VGA Class Code 0x03.0000
        "rrrrrrrr" bits are zero
	Closed/Accepted 9-0-0 with changes
	AI Ron, run this by Lilian.
242: New: PCI Binding - assigned-addresses clarification
	Correction,  applies to PCI Binding version 1.4
        Strike the word "note"
        Change "null" in "...null prop-encoded-array" in proposal to "zero
        length"
        Change: OF will attempt to "assign based address register by
        allocating address space and programming based address register"
	Accepted with Changes 8-0-0
245: New: core document - extended std font ...
	Strongly Recommended Practice,
	SCOPE: - Frame Buffer Support Pkg implementations
	       - Any drivers that uses default-font or set-font
		 except as the phrase "default-font set-font"
	Closed/Accepted 8-0-1
247: New: 1275 Core Document: "name" props for SCSI devices 
	Tabled AI: Mitch for generic name proposal.
	Resubmitted as #Mitch-a, accepted, see below.
248: New: Extension to Core - size method
	Strongly Recommended Practice
	Scope: Core and drivers as indicated in the proposal (packages that
        refer to a mass storage device or a portion of such a device.
        Closed/Accepted 9-0-0
Proposal Mitch-A: New, Generic Device Names Recommended Practice
	Strongly Recommended Practice
	Closed/Accepted, AI: Mitch to create RP document
	by Wed 20 March 1995. (David to post and number
	proposal).
        Updated status 03/31/95: look like this one is dead due to
        nonconcurrent position from Apple.

8- Generic name discussion:
OF name property is used for:
     1- human readable/writeable selector in pathnames
     2- driver binding by OS
     3- (sometimes) Device feature/bug set sensing by OS driver
     4- selection of a particular device by client program or "internal
        firmware application"
     5- system inventory ( e.g. what is in my system? 16450 vs. 16550)

needs:
     A-global uniqueness (2)
         -MFG, name
     B-mnemonic value/palatability to user

problems:
     i- A & B are inconsistent
     ii- MFG, name presumptions
     iii- Different OS's slice the pie in different ways (solution: need
          board ID probably from VPD
     iv- Chip drivers vs. card drivers
     v- Programming model vs. actual part
     vi- pci x,y
     vii- cheating vendors

examples:
/pci@/isa@/scsi@/disk@
/DEC,25102/INTL,82378ib/NCR53c810/sd@5,2
                                          (scsidisk)
without FCode:
/dec,pci/pci8086,0483/ISA/sd@5,2

/@.../@3f0/@2/disktape@5

NT: multi(n)multi(n)scsi(n)rdisk(n)partition(n)\foo\bar

team concensus is:
         name---> generic
         compatible----> specific name
                        less specific name
                        ...
                        least specific name

propose: if VPD is available, should publish it as a property. Verify PCI 
spec to see whether the way to acess VPD and its length defined
(1200 bytes minimum for card to have FCode (512 bytes boundary))

Floppy units:
/isa/flopp
/isa/floppy@3f0:1,\foo.  Floppy should be seen as a bus.


9- Remand the following items to the PowerPC Task Force:
Actions by PowerPC Task Force:
221: New: Eliminate "cpu-version" from PPC binding 
	Closed/Withdrawn
222: New: Split PowerPC binding into processor and ...
	Closed/Accepted, ammended
223: New: Create "Device Extensions to IEEE 1275" document 
	Closed/Accepted, ammended
	Remand back to 1275-wg to create "common devices" binding.
	P1275-WG; Reconvene, accepts, AI; Jordan, Create
	Common Devices Binding Recommended Practice.
224: New: PowerPC - multiple instances of identical devices 
	Closed/Withdrawn (moot)
228: New: PowerPC - Boot Order Change
	Pending/Tabled
229: New: PPC/PReP: Halt-Hibernate 
	Tabled, AI: RLArndt, define "halt" partition.
230: New: PPC/PReP: Halt-Suspend 
	Closed/Passed as ammended 5-0-5
231: New: PPC/PReP: Halt-Dump 
	Tabled, AI: (Define "halt" procedure).
232: New: PPC/PReP: Halt-MCLogout 
	Tabled, Pending elaboration
235: New: PPC binding proposal - SCSI device names
	Closed/Withdrawn, Supersceded by 247
239: New: PowerPC binding - Locating Standard Devices
	Closed/Accepted as ammended. (No /chosen properties all
	aliases).
240: New: PReP: Procedure for Binding Meetings
	Closed/Accepted, Procedures accepted by committee
	Bob to publish procedures document.
243: New: PowerPC binding - reboot command section?
	Closed/Accepted as ammended bu author
244: New: PowerPC binding - reboot command section?
	Closed/Duplicate of 244
246: New: PowerPC binding - std default font.

10- Action Items
Mitch: to follow up TI patent issue with Harrison Beasley
Mitch: to make formal proposals on the following items
       1- Interposer 
       2 -Size Method
       3- %msr  %pc
Kip: to make formal proposal on ARC Terminal
Lilian works with Jordan on EISA and ISA PNP. Lilian accepts to be the owner.
x86 binding will be co-driven by Mitch Bradley and Jordan Brown: x86
binding for next meeting review (04/25/95).
Ron: create template for "recommended practice" (Frame in MIF)
Ron: see 237, 238, 241 and 242
David: see 233.
-----------------END of the MINUTES-------------------------------------------
------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Dr. Luan D. Nguyen                             Phone: 512-838-1292,t/l 678-1292
System Architect                               Unix:  duyluan@austin.ibm.com
IBM System Technology and Architecture Div.    Vnet:  duyluan at austin
11400 Burnet Road IMAD 9450
Austin, TX 78758


