Subject: Minutes of IEEE 1275 Committee on 01/24/95
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 95 10:29:51 -0600
From: "Dr. Luan D. Nguyen" <duyluan@austin.ibm.com>

Dear IEEE 1275-1994 Committee members,
Attached please find the minutes of our last meeting on 01/24/95 at
FirmWorks, CA. Have a nice day.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

1- Attendees

Ron Hochsprung Apple/Sys. Arch.    (408)974-2661  ron@apple.com
Mitch Bradley  FirmWorks/President (415)961-1302  wmb@firmworks.com
               Chairman IEEE 1275-1994 Committee
David M. Kahn  Sun Microsystems/   (415)336-2784  dmk@Eng.Sun.Com
               Vice Chair IEEE 1275-1994 Committee/
               Firmware/OS Architecture
Luan Nguyen    IBM/Sys. Arch./     (512)838-1292  duyluan@austin.ibm.com
               Secretary IEEE 1275-1994 Committee
Yongjae Rim    IBM pPS 		   (512)838-8508  yrim@austin.ibm.com
David Paktor   HAL   		   (408)379-7000  paktor@hal.com
John Beidl     IBM NS Raleigh      (919)254-2855  jbeidl@vnet.ibm.com
Mike Segapel   IBM pPS Firmware    (512)838-4228  mikes@austin.ibm.com
John Beidl     IBM NS Raleigh      (919)254-2855  jbeidl@vnet.ibm.com
Bob Coffin     IBM pPS Arch.       (512)838-8240  coffin@vnet.ibm.com
Jordan Brown   Sunsoft PowerPC     (310)348-6039  jordan.Brown@west.sun.com
John Rible     Quicksand           (408)458-0399  jrible@cruzio.com 
                                                  (as of 2/1/1995)
David Trissel  Motorola Austin                    dave_trissel@risc.sps.mot.com
Ilan Rabinowitz Ilanet             (408)354-9991  ilanet!ir@apple.com
Lilian Leung   Firepower Systems   (415)462-6217  lilian_leung@firepower.com



2- Review Agenda

Proposed agenda was approved with the following amendments: 
* Drop 1275.0 item and add (1) review and approve minutes, (2) editor report, 
  and (3) action review meeting.
* Add P1275.6 and P1275.7 after P1275.4 item.
* Add x86 binding and New Proposal items after ISA PNP binding item.



3- Standard Progress report
  
* P1275.3: AI for David Paktor to drive and Martin Walsh to help to push it 
  through IEEE RevCom.
* P1275.1 and P1275.2 are done and will be dropped out from future meeting agenda.
* P1275.4: ballot sent out.
* P1275.5: notice to BASC sent by David Kahn.
* P1275.6: PAR was approved and balloting invitation went out.
* GOAA has shown interested on IEEE 1275-1994


4- Last minutes meeting review

Vote unanimously to approve the minutes of last meeting sent out with the 
following admendments: 
(1) Item 9: add note that the committee voted unanimously to withdraw P1275.5 PAR, 
(2) Item 11 changes to a note saying that P1275.7 will be errata only and other 
    additions will be published on the net under separate authority (e.i. not 
    under IEEE)

AI David Kahn to log all of the minutes from now on to the playground


5- Editor report

John Rible resigned from being the editor after a job very well done. His work is
much appreciate by all of us.


6- Action Items Review

The committee reviewed and updated the list of action items assigned from our last 
meeting. From now on, we decided that the updated action item summary at the end
of each meeting will be included in the minutes of that meeting (refer to section
11 Action Item below). 



7- Future Meetings

March 07, 1995: to be hosted by IBM Austin.
April 25, 1995: to be hosted by David Paktor, HAL Inc., Campbell, CA. But April 
26, 1994, PowerPC and PCMCIA bindings meeting will be hosted by Ron Hochsprung
(Apple location)
June 6, 1995: to be hosted by Motorola Austin (David Trissel will confirm).



8- Non-relocatable (hard-decoded) address spaces and "Compatibility" devices

* Two or more devices want the same hard-decoded non-relocatable address 
* Request that cannot be fulfilled



9- ISA binding

The committee reviewed draft from Jordan Brown. AI to Jordan to update the document
as discussed and post the new version back to the playground. It has been 
recommended that ISA, EISA, and ISA PNP are combined to one binding.



10-Other proposals 

A- Unanimous vote to accept proposal #216 version 1 from Paktor. This will go into 
   the errata document.
B- Unanimous vote to accept two errata items from Mitch which will go into the 
   errata document.
C- Accepted as admendment the following:
   The new functions approved at the last meeting are: 0x129 push-package and 0x12a
   pop-package. Should we decide to approve the "interpose" function that has been 
   informally proposed, its Fcode number will be 0x12b.
D- Multi-color text:
   Ron will split this document into three proposals and will post the updated 
   documents as discussed.


11- Action Items:

Paktor: to check the wording of 64-bit "split" words in P1275.6
Paktor: to own and drive P1275.3 with helps from Martin Walsh.
Kahn: to create P1275.7 PAR
Mitch: to follow up TI patent issue with Harrison Beasley
Mitch: to make formal proposals on the following items
       1- Interposer 
       2 -Size Method
       3- %msr  %pc
       4- ARC Terminal
Kahn: has the following AI 
       1- publish proposal template
       2- minutes and new proposals log on playground
Ron: split multi-color text document into three document
Lilian works with Jordan on EISA and ISA PNP. Lilian accepts to be the owner.
x86 binding will be co-driven by Mitch Bradley and Jordan Brown

Device tree:
1- anything soldered in
2- plug-in devices on memory-mapped busses (SCSI is not)
3- known plug-in devices on m-m bus (nvram stored info o the card, or
   diskette, PNP protocol(?)).


------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Dr. Luan D. Nguyen                             Phone: 512-838-1292,t/l 678-1292
System Architect                               Unix:  duyluan@austin.ibm.com
IBM System Technology and Architecture Div.    Vnet:  duyluan at austin
11400 Burnet Road IMAD 9450
Austin, TX 78758



