Subject: Minutes of IEEE 1275 committee meeting on 10/31/95
Date: Thu, 11 Jan 96 17:03:47 -0600
From: "Dr. Luan D. Nguyen" <duyluan@austin.ibm.com>

Dear IEEE 1275-1994 Committee members,

Attached please find the minutes of our last meeting on 10/31/95 at
FirmWorks, Mountain View, CA.
Also please remind that: (1) our next meeting will be on January 16th at
Motorola, Austin, TX , and (2) check the "Action Item Summary" at the
end of this note for your action items.
Thank you and have a nice day.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

1- Attendees

Mitch Bradley  FirmWorks/President (415)961-1302  wmb@firmworks.com
               Chairman IEEE 1275-1994 Committee
David M. Kahn  Sun Microsystems/   (415)336-2784  dmk@Eng.Sun.Com
               Vice Chair IEEE 1275-1994 Committee/
               Firmware/OS Architecture
Luan Nguyen    IBM/Sys. Arch./     (512)838-1292  duyluan@austin.ibm.com
               Secretary IEEE 1275-1994 Committee
Ron Hochsprung Apple/Sys. Arch.    (408)974-2661  ron@apple.com
Greg Hill       Firmworks            [415]917-6985  gregh@firmworks.com
Mike Segapeli  IBM pPS Firmware    (512)838-8428  mikes@austin.ibm.com
Jordan Brown  Sunsoft  (310)348-6039 jordan.brown@west.sun.com
John Kingman IBM RSD  (512)838-1546  kingman@austin.ibm.com
Chris M Bellman  Adaptec, Inc.  cbellman@corp.adpatec.com
Rob Baxter     Motorola Computer G.(512)891-2137  robb@phx.mcd.mot.com
Kip McClanahan Motorola MMTG     (512)891-6525  kip-mcclanahan@risc.sps.mot.com
Bob Coffin     IBM pPS Arch.       (512)838-8240  coffin@vnet.ibm.com
David Paktor   HAL                                    paktor@HAL.com
Alfredo Cotroneo  Bull HN, Italy 1+39-2-67798496  aec@nexus.org
John Rible     Quicksand           (408)458-0399  jrible@cruzio.com
Lilian Walter  FirePower Systems   (415)462-6217  lwalter@Firepower.com

2- Review Agenda

Proposed agenda was reviewed and approved 10-0-0 witht he following changes: (1) Add "discussion on procedural for reviewing bindings" after "10:15AM
Future meetings", (2) Move "Errata document" to after lunch so John Rible 
can participate, and (3) Move "Any other proposals on the table" from 2:45PM
 to the end of the day.


3- Last meeting minutes review

Vote passed to approve the last meeting minutes (10-0-0).

4- Standard Progress Report

1275.3: The ballot package including the standard and cover letter was 
shipped to IEEE Monday. It is still in ballot process.

1275.4: Mitch and Martin were unable to sway the lone dissenting voter. We
decided to do the recirculation.  Martin sent the recirc package to IEEE on
Monday June 05,1995. This package included the comments from the dissenting
vote and the committee responses along with a cover letter. Recirculation period is over and we are waiting to hear from IEEE


5- Action Items Review

The following AIs are still opened:
* Mitch: to follow up TI patent issue with Harrison Beasley. Open, pending on
  Ron's effort to check on TI licensing/royalty on NuBus that may provide a
  path to solve this patent issue.  
* All authors/editors of each "recommended practice" documents have action 
  item to update the document template and its contents per discussion.
* Mitch: encapsulate #251 to recommended practice document.
* David Kahn: Standard properties document.
* David Kahn/Mitch: report on 64-bit experimental work.


6- Future Meetings

Jan. 16 & 17, 1996: Motorola Austin, TX, to be hosted by Kip McClanahan.
April 30 & June 01, 1996: IBM Austin, TX, to be hosted by John Kingman and/or
Bob Coffin.


7- Procedural issues:

    * CHRP binding and other documents will be reviewed in open public after Fall Comdex 95.
    * Thanks to Motorola for hosting the alias. We request that large
document/note to be sent to David Kahn for posting.


8- Open Firmware Recommended Practice: 16-color Text Extension

    Approval vote 11-0-0 to become the recommended practice version 1.3 with amendments:
(1) deleting the time next to the date in the front page, and (2) directing Ron to update this document accordingly.


9- Open Firmware Recommended Practice: 8-bit Graphics Extension

    Approval vote 11-0-0 to become the recommended practice version 1.3 with amendments:
(1) deleting the time next to the date in the front page, (2) Change line 17 page 5 to "The returned values are the dimensions of the viewable area of the
screen in the current mode", and (3) directing Ron to update this document
accordingly.


10- Errata document (1275.7):

     Reviewed changes and voted 13-0-0 to approve changes and to forward the draft 1275.7 for IEEE sponsored balloting.


11- PC Card binding supplement:

     Bob Coffin reported to the current status of the PC Card Committee.


12- PCI binding:

     Reviewed changes page by page. AI: Ron to update.
     Tabled discussion on "reg"/"assigned-addresses"/base address registers in the PCI binding.


13- 1275.3 VME
     Reviewed the replies to the p1275.3 ballot.


14- Open Firmware Recommended Practice: Interposer

    Approval vote 10-0-1 (Jordan against) to become the recommended practice version 1.0 with amendments: (1) deleting the time next to the date in the
front page, (2) fix e-mail address, (3) typo on page 4 last line
"%package_name", and (4) directing Mitch to update thisdocument accordingly.

 
15- Proposals review:

292: Subject: Item #292: PCI bus master capable property
292: Closed: Withdrawn by author- Superceded by #293.
293: Subject: Item #292: PCI bus master capable property
293: Closed: passed 11-0-0


16- PowerPC Processor binding:

291: Subject: Item #291: PPC Default mode for map
291: Table.


17- Action Items Summary

Old AIs left:
 See section 5 on Action Items Review in this note

New AIs:
  * Ron/David Kahn/Greg/Jordan: work on "reg"/"assigned-addresses"/base address registers in the PCI binding.
  * Jordan/Lilian to work on names, unit-address... in ISA binding

