From: kingman@austin.ibm.com (John Kingman)
Subject: Item #356: Administrivia: OFWG Minutes for April/May Meeting
Date: Thu, 2 May 1996 18:02:10 -0500 (CDT)

P1275 Open Firmware Working Group Proposal -- Proposal #356 Ver <Auth-Vers#>

Title:          Minutes of Open Firmware Working Group meeting on April 30,
		and May 1, 1996

Author:         John Kingman

Date:           May 2, 1996

Attached please find the minutes of our last meeting held April 30, 
and May 1, 1996 at IBM, Austin, TX.  Thanks to Bob Coffin for making 
the arrangements.

Also please note that: (1) our next meeting will be at Firmworks in
Mountain View, CA, on June 25-26, 1996 and (2) check the "Action 
Item Summary" at the end of this note for your action items.

The minutes of the subcommittee are also attached, following the 
minutes of the main OFWG meeting.

Regards,

John Kingman, Secretary Open Firmware Working Group
kingman@austin.ibm.com

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

1- Attendees

Mitch Bradley  FirmWorks/President  415-961-1302  wmb@firmworks.com
               Chairman Open Firmware Working Group (5/1/1996 only)
David M. Kahn  Sun Microsystems     415-336-2784 dmk@Eng.Sun.Com
               Vice Chairman Open Firmware Working Group
John Kingman   IBM Risc System/6000 512-838-1546 kingman@austin.ibm.com
               Secretary Open Firmware Working Group
Ron Hochsprung Apple/Sys. Arch.     408-974-2661 ron@apple.com
Bob Coffin     IBM Risc System/6000 512-838-8240 coffin@vnet.ibm.com
John Dickol    IBM Microelectronics 512-838-6005 dickol@vnet.ibm.com 
Greg Hill      Firmworks            415-917-6985 GREGH@FIRMWORKS.COM
Jordan Brown   Sunsoft              310-348-6039 jordan.brown@west.sun.com
John Hall      Sun Microsystems     415-786-6927 John.Hall@eng.sun.com
David Paktor   Sun Microelectronics 408-774-8306 PAKTOR@ENG.SUN.COM
Tom Kriz       IBM Risc System/6000 512-838-6542 
Mike Segapeli  IBM Risc System/6000 512-838-8428 mikes@austin.ibm.com
John O'Quin    IBM Risc System/6000 512-838-3904 oquin@austin.ibm.com

2- Review Agenda

 
Proposed agenda (#339) was reviewed and approved unanimously, 9-0-0, with
the provision that David Kahn could rearrange items to improve work flow.
#339: Closed, agenda approved.

3- Administrative/Procedural items

- Discussion of use of ftp sites to expedite proposal processing.
  David Kahn reiterated his request for at least one week lead time on 
  proposals.  Drafts which have not been reviewed by the OFWG should 
  be marked "Unapproved Draft #.#" 
  Jordan Brown may suggest wording for various document stages.

- We publicly thank Apple and David "Lefty" Schlesinger for 
  setting up the mirror site.

- Submit documents to David Kahn in pdf, postscript, and text formats, 
  preferably via an ftp site he can access.

4- Last meeting minutes review

Approved the minutes of the meeting of March 5, 1996 (#329) by voice vote.
#329: Closed, minutes approved.

5- Future Meetings

June 25 - 26, 1996:     Firmworks,              Mountain View, CA
        Host:           Mitch Bradley           <wmb@firmworks.com>
        Directions to Firmworks available on http://www.firmworks.com

August 13 - 14, 1996:   Apple Computer,         Cupertino, CA
        Host:           Ron Hochsprung          <ron@apple.com>

October 8 - 9, 1996:	?			Austin or Tempe
	Host:		? (Bob Coffin to resolve)

6- Standard Progress Report

--- Closed ---

1275-1994:	OF Core (Official IEEE Standard)
1275.1-1994:	SPARC ISA  (Official IEEE Standard)
1275.2-1994:	SBus Bus Binding (Official IEEE Standard)

p1275.4/d14	FB+ (Passed sponsor ballot, in editing, editor: Paula Kelty)
		New status on 4/18: The document is apparently done,
		waiting for status update and copies from Mary Lynn,
		via Martin.

p1275.5		68K (PAR Withdrawn by the working group)

--- Open -----

p1275.3:	VME (Sponsor ballot failed due to lack of response)
		David Paktor is trying to revise the PAR to limit
		the scope to VME-32, and exclude the VME-64 issues.
		Current State: Awaiting NESCOM review and approval.
		Owner: David Paktor

p1275.6/d5:	64 Bit Extensions (Negative Ballots w.r.t. 32 bit compatibility)
		Owner: David Kahn

p1275.a		Errata to 1275-1994 (Core Errata), Sponsor Ballot,
		Balloting body has been formed, awaiting approval of
		balloting body via Martin.
		Owner: David Kahn

7- Action Items Review

 -1- Closed - The TI license only covers NuBus.  FCode for self-test on a 
     plug-in card might be affected.
 -2- Open -add a request for at least one week lead time and that drafts 
     which have not been reviewed by the OFWG should be marked "Unapproved 
     Draft #.#" (Jordan may suggest wording for various document stages.)
 -4- Open - Greg Hill volunteered to take it over, John Hall will help.
 -5- Closed - document to be produced.
 -6- Open <remove David, Greg> refer to 11.1.4
 -7- Open <remove Lilian>
 -9- Closed (Moot)
-11- Open
-12- Open
-14- Closed - see #350
-15- Closed - see latest PCI binding
-17- Open
-18- Closed -- subcommittee should refer items back to main group
     as appropriate
-19- Closed -- subcommittee secretary should update and inform David
-20- Closed -- update is in 1.7
-21- Closed -- new proposals
-22- Closed -- update is in 1.7
-23- Closed <don't need AI>
-24- Open

The following AIs are still open: <2,4,6,7,9,11,12,17,23,24>

8- Other Pending/Tabled items

#250 - Open, Tabled: activate when needed.
#310 - Closed, accepted with amendment 8-0-0
#322 - Open, line-ending definition and wording needs work
#323a - Closed - PCI 1.7
#323b - Open, Create recommended practice for output devices (e.g. VGA)
#321 - Closed, superceded by #355
#320 - Closed, withdrawn by author
#324 - Closed - see #336

9- New Proposal Status Summary:

#326 -- Closed, accepted with amendment 9-0-1
#327 -- Closed, accepted with amendment 8-0-0
#328 -- Closed, withdrawn by author, superceded by #333
#329 -- Closed, minutes approved.
#330 -- Closed, remanded to subcommittee
#331 -- Closed, withdrawn by author
#332 -- Closed, remanded to subcommittee
#333 -- Closed, withdrawn by author, superceded by #352
#336 -- Open
#337 -- Closed, accepted as amended: 9-0-0
#338 -- Closed, accepted as amended: 10-0-1
#339 -- Closed, agenda approved.
#340 -- Closed, withdrawn by author, see #327
#341 -- Closed, withdrawn by author, see #342
#342 -- Tabled
#343 -- Closed, accepted 8-0-0
#344 -- Not Addressed
#345 -- Not Addressed
#346 -- Not Addressed
#347 -- Not Addressed
#348 -- Not Addressed
#349 -- Tabled 
#350 -- Not Addressed
#351 -- Open
#352 -- Tabled
#353 -- Closed, accepted with amendment  11-0-0
#354 -- Closed, remanded to subcommittee
#355 -- Closed, rejected 11-0-0

10- Document Reviews (including associated proposals, if any)

PCI Binding Review
    Revision 1.7 Unapproved Draft 
	-- rev. hist to include #323a
	-- page iv, line 43: correct clock-frequency spelling
	-- page 16, line 5: Insert section level 4.2.1 for the methods, 
	   following 4.2
	-- page 17, line 41: add words about setting cache line size
	-- misc: use italics or something to offset lower case Ls
    Related Proposals:	
    #310: closed, accepted with amendment 8-0-0
	amendment: 
	    Leave it up to the implementation (and describe in a footnote)
	    referring to section 3.5 in 2.1 PCI Spec, as to the trade-offs
	    in programming the primary latency timer. (See also section
	    5.5.18 in the PCI Bridge Spec 1.0)
    #326: closed, replace with friendly amendment 9-0-1
	amendment: p17 l38, replace sentence beginning with "For each 
	  base ..." with the following:
	    "For each child node, create an "assigned-addresses" property 
	    with entries for each address base register (or register pair) 
	    for which an address was assigned."
    #327: closed, accepted with amendment 8-0-0
	amendment: 
	    Leave it up to the implementation (and describe in a footnote)
	    referring to section 3.5 in 2.1 PCI Spec, as to the trade-offs
	    in programming the primary latency timer.
    #340: Closed, withdrawn by author, see #327
    #349: Tabled (New AI 25)
    #353: Closed, accepted with amendment 11-0-0
        amendment:
            page 19, line 9: delete
            page 19, line 10: change "38" to "1A"

SCSI-3 Binding Review
    Draft Version 1 
    #352: Tabled
    	-- 1) is SBP the same as 1394? (John Hall)
	-- 2) how does this fit in with the device tree?
            i.e. what if the device is 1394 and I have scsi-3
            and non-scsi-3 devices out on that bus?  What's the
            topology?

        The discussion pretty much centered around the fact that since
        scsi-3 is just a software protocol using essentially a 'network'
        device as the hardware transport there probably is no need for
        a scsi-3 device-type ...  the code could be embedded in the
        underlying bus device driver, using the read and write methods
        of the parent (which have semantics similar to network devices)
        to transmit packets.  If it makes sense to "packagize"
        some of the common 'scsi3' support functions to the extent
        that there would be a net savings of code space, then perhaps,
        there


Generic Names Recommended Practice review
    Version 1.1 Unapproved Draft 
    #336: Open
	-- Table 1 to removed once it is in the PCI binding, Change 
           Section 6 to Example (Informative)
	-- Change 'processor' to 'cpu'.
	-- Rename to <"Device Names">
    Related Proposals:	
    #331: Closed, withdrawn by author

What does "compatible" mean? Recommended Practice
    Draft Version 0.1 
    #343: Closed, accepted 8-0-0
	-- Last sentence of 3.1 and the term "[ their ] defined semantics"
	   needs clarification.  Section 5 needs to be rewritten.
	   This should be folded into a rewritten and renamed
	   generic names proposal.
	-- Jordan and Bob are directed to create a new combined and 
           rewritten <"Device Names"> unapproved draft RP 
	
Interrupt Mapping Recommended Practice review
    Unapproved Draft 0.6 
    #355: Closed, rejected in favor of new proposal.  11-0-0
	-- discussion of need for proposal to change PCI "interrupts" 
	   or a masking proposal
	-- Ron Hochsprung to rework and resubmit

OBP-TFTP Recommended Practice review
    Draft Version 0.5 
    #351: Open
	-- page 4, line 4: "EtherNet" should be "MAC"
	-- page 4, line 51: "client" should be "server"
	-- page 6, line 5: allow literal string "bootp" ahead of the first
	   argument. Also allow giaddr, bootp-retries, and tftp-retries
	   to be optional.
	-- check if subnet-mask is required 
	-- fix use of "%NONE%"
	-- look into IPMG impact
        -- Suggested Changes:
            Get rid of the methods.
            Get rid of the new semantics of open.
              obp-tftp open shouldn't do anything 'extra'.
              Perhaps obp-tftp open gets called at 'load' time.
            Implement the ping ui as an external word that
            understands the ip protocol.
            Change arguments to open:
                    "promiscuous,..." - Eaten by network device
                    "bootp,..." - Play bootp, allow some args
                            to be specified.
                    ...     - No bootp, use arguments specified
                              on the command line.
            Delete the methods and publish the initial bootreply
            packet as encoded-bytes in /chosen. (obp-tftp).

Device Support Extensions Recommended Practice
    Related Proposals:	
    #337: Closed, accepted as amended 9-0-0
	amendment:
	   Change to say "x-values increase when moving to the 'right'
           and 'y' values increase when moving 'down'."
    #338: Closed, accepted as amended: 10-0-1
	amendment:
	    remove material relating to scancodes and language
    #341: Closed, withdrawn by author, see #342
    #342: Tabled
	amendment:
            Change "It is expected and recommended ... " to
            "New Platform bindings are encouraged to require
            compliance with this recommended practice."

11- Action Items Summary

Old AIs still open:

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  | No.|Who         |Description                                           |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  2 |Editors of  |Update document template and contents per discussion. |
  |    |Recommended |Drafts should be marked "Unapproved Draft #.#", unless|
  |    |Practice    |otherwise directed by the OFWG.  Please allow at least|
  |    |documents   |one week lead time prior to OFWG meeting for review.  |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  4 |Greg H.     |Standard properties document.                         |
  |    |John H.     |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  6 |Ron H.      |Work on "reg," "assigned-addresses," base address     |
  |    |Jordan B.   |registers in the PCI binding.                         |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  7 |Jordan B.   |Work on names, unit-address... in ISA binding         |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 11 |Jordan B.   |Reorganize discussion of probing in ISA binding       |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 12 |Jordan B.   |Suggest wording for IRQ 2 vs 9                        |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 17 |Ron H.      |Prepare proposal for Code Page selection.             |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 24 |Ron H.      |talk to Mitch Bradley to clarify line-end for #322    |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

New AIs:

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  | No.|Who         |Description                                           |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 25 |Ron H.      |Work out use of probe-pci with Paul Thomas (#349)     |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Subcommittee Minutes for May 1, 1996:

- Last meeting minutes review (Proposal #332)

    Voted 9-0-0 to approve the minutes of the subcommittee meeting of 
	March 6, 1996.
    #332 -- Closed, minutes approved.

- PowerPC Processor binding Revision 1.10 DRAFT 
    Related Proposals:	
    #330: Tabled, 
	-- John Kingman to get with Bill Rees and clarify need and what is 
           most common among PPC platforms

- PReP Binding
    Related Proposals:	
    #354: Closed, Accepted 9-0-0
	-- Jordan to make updates and publish revised binding

- Action Items:

    -S1- Closed
    -S2- Open
    -S3- Closed
    -S4- Open
    -S5- Open
    -S6- Closed
    -S7- Closed
    -S8- Open

- Action Items Summary

  Old AIs still open:

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  | No.|Who         |Description                                           |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S2 |Ron H.      | Update and create v1.1 Forth and FCode Rec Practice  |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S4 |Bob C.      | Make "shared-bus-master" proposal                    |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S5 |Ron H.      | Make "chording" (keyboard) proposal                  |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S8 |Mitch B.    | Propose that debug facilities not be supported       |
  |    |            | in real-mode.                                        |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

  New AIs:

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  | No.|Who         |Description                                           |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S9 |John K.     |Get with Bill Rees and clarify #330                   |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

[ P1275 Item #356 -- Received: Thu May  2 16:01:23 PDT 1996 ]

