Date: Mon, 23 Mar 98 10:58:47 -0600
From: "Richard L. Arndt" <rlarndt@austin.ibm.com>
Subject: Minutes 17 March 1998 OFWG Meeting


P1275 Openboot Working Group Proposal -- Proposal #:437 Ver <Author-Version#>

Title:          Minutes 17 March 1998 OFWG Meeting @ Firmworks

Author:         Richard L. Arndt

Date:           23 March 1998

Ed/Tech:        Editorial


        Minutes:  Open Firmware Working Group Meeting:
                  March 17, 1998
                  Firmworks Mountain View, Ca.
                  Host:  Greg Hill
                  Starting Time:  10 AM.



  1- Establish quorum & Voting rights
     ================================

Established by President & Presiding Officer Mitch Bradley
 The following members were present:


Name:                  Company:    Phone #:     Email:
_____                  ________    ________     ______
Richard Arndt          IBM         512-838-8502 rlarndt@austin.ibm.com
Chris Bellman          Adaptec     408-945-8600 cbellman@corp.adaptec.com
Mitch Bradley          Firmworks   650-917-6984 wmb@firmworks.com
John Hall              Apple       408-974-6862 jdhall@apple.com
Ron Hochsprung         Apple/      408-974-2661 ron@apple.com
                       System Arch
David Kahn             Sun         650-786-6203 dmk@eng.sun.com
T. J. Merritt          CodeGen     415-834-9111 tjm@cgt.com
Tarl Neustaedter       Sun         978-442-0346 tarl@east.sun.com
First time attendees:
Parag Patel            CodeGen     408-370-7976 parag@cgt.com
Greg Hill              FirmWorks   650-917-6985 gregh@firmworks.com

  2- Review Agenda:
     ==============

Approved

  3- Approve Minutes of 11 November 1997 Meeting  (Item #429)
     ========================================================

Amendments:
        Reassign second 41 of action items to #42 to David Kahn

Approved as amended above

  4- Future Meetings:
     ================

     The next meeting scheduled:

        Date                    Host Location
        ----                    -------------

        16 June 1998            Firmworks Mountain View, CA.

        01 Sept 1998            Firmworks Mountain View, CA.


  5- Status of Action Items:
     =======================


   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | No.|Who         |Description                                    |Status|
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   |  2 |Editors of  |Update document template and contents per      | Open |
   |    |Recommended |discussion.                                    |      |
   |    |Practice    |                                               |      |
   |    |documents   |                                               |      |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 33 |Mitch B.    |Propose display-modes property along with      | Open |
   |    |            |set & read display modes methods               |      |

Remove David P. Name from above.

   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 35 |Ron H.      |Create formal PCI-IDE device binding document  |Closed|

                        Close for lack of interest.

   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 37 |David P.    |Modify "boilerplate" on VME bus binding.       |Closed|

                        For lack of interest
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 38 |Tarl N.     |Create a formal 1394 binding                   |Closed|

                        Proposal #435

   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 39 |Richard A.  |Update CHRP source to reflect item #419        |Closed|

                      New Version Published to reflector

   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 40 |Ron H.      |Update PCI  source to reflect item #420        |Closed|

                        Proposal #430

   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 41 |Ron H.      |Update PCI  source to reflect item #424        | New  |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 41 |Ron H.      |Update Core Erata  to reflect item #425        | New  |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|



 Subcommittee Action Items:
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   |S18 |David K.    |Rework proposal #427 for usb binding into a    |Closed|
   |    |Tarl N.     |working draft for implementation               |      |
   |    |John H.     |                                               |      |
   |    |Jordan B.   |                                               |      |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|

                        Proposal #432


  6- New Proposals:
     ==============
     Item #430  PCI Binding: Expand PCI compatible/name ...

Strike lines 113 through 118 (paragraph "name") passed.

Add word "NOTE:" to line 153 to indicate that this paragraph is informative.

Passed as amended

     Item #432  USB Binding Draft 0.2

Approved as presented  David K. Is directed to publish all newly approved
documents

     Item #433  ARM Processor Binding,  Draft 0.3

Page 12 typo call-static-method instead of call-method.  (lines 26 thru 42 page 12)

Strike sections 7.1.3 & 7.2 & 7.2.1  (lines 29 thru 39 page 18)

Strike up, tos, rp & ip (lines 4 thru 14 page 18)

Approved as amended.

     Item #434  Digital Network Appliance Platform Binding 0.2d

Page 2 section 3 line 12 Appliance to Architecture

Lines 40-46 Page 3 delete 0x20s

Page 4 Note on line 3 Typos

Page 6 line 35 ISA RTC changed to Open Prom

Approved as amended

     Item #435  Binding for IEEE 1394/Firewire Bus

Add a "wait" method for checking for operation completion and handling non-dma
devices.

Add Normative statement for required Control Child Nodes

Line 412 strike word "will"

Global Change "1394" to "IEEE 1394"

Approved as amended

     Item #436  Open Firmware recommended Practices for SCSI-3 FCP Interface

Remove Diagnose Method (lines 303 - 311 ).

Change "lid-to-wwn" to "loopid-to-wwn". (error-code | wwn.lo wwn.hi 0 )  optional

Remand to author to make


Adjourned





[ P1275 Item #437 -- Received: Mon Mar 23 09:01:40 PST 1998 ]

