From: Richard Arndt <rlarndt@us.ibm.com>
Subject: Item #447: Minutes of the 1 September 1998 OF-Working Group Meeting
Date: Thu, 3 Sep 1998 08:43:23 -0400

P1275 Openboot Working Group Proposal -- Proposal #:447 Ver 1

Title:          Minutes September 1,1998 meeting

Author:         Richard L. Arndt

Date:           August 27,1998

Ed/Tech:        Editorial

Synopsis:       meeting minutes

Doc & Version:  1

Problem:        Minutes

Proposal:

Minutes for September 1, 1998 Meeting at Firmworks Mountain View, Ca.
Host:  Greg Hill
Starting Time:  10 AM.



  1- Establish quorum & Voting rights
     ================================
     Quorum Declared by Mitch Bradly the following member being present:

     Name:                  Company:    Phone #:     Email:
     _____                  ________    ________     ______

     Richard Arndt          IBM         512-838-8502 rlarndt@us.ibm.com

     Mitch Bradley          Firmworks   415-917-6984 wmb@firmworks.com

     Ron Hochsprung         Apple/      408-974-2661 ron@apple.com
                            System Arch

     David Kahn             Sun         415-786-6203 dmk@eng.sun.com


  2- Review Agenda:
     ==============
     Approved

  3- Approve Minutes of March 17, 1998 Meeting  (Item #437)
     ========================================================

     Last line on Item #436 should read "Remand to author to make above
     changes"

     Approved as amended above

  4- Future Meetings:
     ================

     The next meeting scheduled:

        Date                    Host Location
        ----                    -------------
        March 9,1999            Apple
        Sept. 14,1999           Apple


  5- Status of Action Items:
     =======================

   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | No.|Who         |Description                                    |Status|
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   |  2 |Editors of  |Update document template and contents per      | Open |
   |    |Recommended |discussion.                                    |      |
   |    |Practice    |                                               |      |
   |    |documents   |                                               |      |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 33 |Mitch B.    |Propose display-modes property along with      | Open |
   |    |            |set & read display modes methods               |      |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 42 |David K.    |Update core Eratta to reflect item #425        |Closed|
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | 43 |Mitch B.    |Look into the reaffermation of IEEE 1275 stand.| Open |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | 44 |Mitch B.    |Ship latest version of ARM binding for posting | Open |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | 45 |David K.    |To post clarification per #440                | Open |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | 46 |Ron H.      |Ship TFTP approved draft to David for posting  | Open |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | 47 |Ron H.      |Ship PCI approved revision to David for posting| Open |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|

Mitch reported that ANSI j14 plans to reactivate to reaffirm ANSI forth.


  6- New Proposals:
     ==============
     Proposal #439  ARM Processor:  Correct Definitions of  ...
        Proposal Passed
        Mitch to get latest version to David K. (Item #44)

     Proposal #440  Clarification of set-callback client interface
        Proposal Passed
        David to post clarification (Item #45)

     Ron H. presented updated OF Recommended Practice: TFTP Booting Extension
     per previously approved proposals.
        Draft Approved
        Ron to get latest version (1.0) sans change bars to David K. (Item #46)

     Ron H. presented updated PCI Bus Binding to: ... Revision 2.1
        line 56 of pg 9 should read "entries (1), (2), and (3) shall"
        Draft Approved as amended above
        Ron to get latest version without change bars to David K. (Item #47)

Adjourned

[ P1275 Item #447 -- Received: Thu Sep  3 05:47:10 PDT 1998 ]

