From: "John A. Kingman" <kingman@austin.ibm.com>
Date: Wed, 24 Jan 96 15:42:37 -0600
Subject: Item #309: OFWG Minutes 01/16/95

P1275 Open Firmware Working Group Proposal -- Proposal #309 Ver <Auth-Vers#>

Title:          Minutes of Open Firmware Working Group meeting on 01/16/95

Author:         John Kingman

Date:           January 24, 1996

Dear IEEE 1275-1994 Working Group members,

Attached please find the minutes of our last meeting on 01/16/95 at
Motorola, Austin, TX.  Thanks to Kip McClanahan for making the 
arrangements.

Also please note that: (1) our next meeting will be on March 5-6th at
Apple Cupertino, CA, and (2) check the "Action Item Summary" at the
end of this note for your action items.

As per Agenda Item #7, the Open Firmware Working Group now has a new 
secretary, John Kingman.  John is a Senior Software Engineer in the RISC 
System/6000 Division of IBM in Austin, Texas.  John has been involved 
with PowerPC based systems and related architectures, including PReP and 
CHRP from the beginnings of these efforts.

Thanks to Luan Nguyen for preparing the first portion of these minutes.  
I hope we can make the secretarial transition without any major disruptions.

Regards,

John Kingman, Secretary Open Firmware Working Group
kingman@austin.ibm.com
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

1- Attendees

Mitch Bradley  FirmWorks/President (415)961-1302  wmb@firmworks.com
               Chairman Open Firmware Working Group
David M. Kahn  Sun Microsystems    (415)336-2784  dmk@Eng.Sun.Com
               Vice Chairman Open Firmware Working Group
John Kingman   IBM RSD Architecture(512)838-1546  kingman@austin.ibm.com
               Secretary Open Firmware Working Group
Luan Nguyen    IBM IMD Arch.       (512)838-1292  duyluan@austin.ibm.com
Ron Hochsprung Apple/Sys. Arch.    (408)974-2661  ron@apple.com
Mike Segapeli  IBM RSD Firmware    (512)838-8428  mikes@austin.ibm.com
Jordan Brown   Sunsoft             (310)348-6039  jordan.brown@west.sun.com
Chris M Bellman Adaptec, Inc.      (408)945-8600  cbellman@corp.adpatec.com
Kip McClanahan Motorola MMTG       (512)891-6525  kip-mcclanahan@risc.sps.mot.com
Satoru Mamiya  FirePower Systems   (415)462-3009  mamiya@Firepower.com
Matt Hill      Sun                 (415)786-5321  matt.hill@sun.com
Jim Wooldridge IBM                 (206)803-5804  jwooldridge@austin.ibm.com
Rick Foos      Motorola            (512)891-3084  rfoos@ntgate.sps.moto.com
John Southard  Motorola            (512)891-6236  southard@ntgate.sps.mot.com
Judy Ho        Motorola            (512)891-6325  judyh@ntgate.sps.mot.com
Bruce Rosenkrantz  Motorola        (602)345-7128  brosen@phx.mcd.mot.com
Eric Rainbolt  Motorola            (512)891-7210  eric_rainbolt@risc.sps.mot.com               

2- Review Agenda

Proposed agenda was reviewed and approved 9-0-0 with the following changes:
(1) Add "Administrative Trivia" after "10:15AM Future meetings", and (2) Move
"ISA/EISA/ISA PNP" document review up to right after lunch.


3- Last meeting minutes review

Vote passed to approve the last meeting minutes (9-0-0) with the following
changes: (1) Add in section #6 "Future Meetings" specifying meetings on March 5
and March 6, 1996 at Apple Cupertino to be hosted by Ron Hochsprung, and 
(2) Strike "Jordan against" comment in section #14.


4- Standard Progress Report

1275.3: Per Mitch, to be verified with David Paktor, this .3 went thru
the balloting process but we did not get enough responses. David Paktor
had tried to address some comments from responses with a new version
of this document. We are waiting for Tracy Hallock, the new owner of
this document, from Motorola to step up and move this document forward.

1275.4: Per Mitch, to be verified with Martin, this .4 passed RevCom
and is now in the IEEE editing phase. The committee agreed that we will
continue work with the IEEE to review the draft and this .4 will be
drop from future agenda.



5- Action Items Review

The following AIs are still opened:
* Mitch: to follow up TI patent issue with Harrison Beasley. This is CLOSED
  (no way to resolve with Harrison Beasley).
* Ron: to check on TI licensing/royalty on NuBus that may provide a path to
  solve this patent issue.  
* All authors/editors of each "recommended practice" documents have action 
  item to update the document template and its contents per discussion.
* Mitch Bradley: encapsulate #251 to recommended practice document.
* David Kahn: Standard properties document.
* David Kahn/Mitch: report on 64-bit experimental work.
* Ron/David Kahn/Greg/Jordan: work on "reg"/"assigned-addresses"/base address
  registers in the PCI binding.
* Jordan/Lilian to work on names, unit-address... in ISA binding


6- Future Meetings

Mar 5 - 6, 1996:        Apple Computer,         Cupertino, CA
        Host:           Ron Hochsprung          <ron@apple.com>

Apr 30 - May 1, 1996:   IBM,                    Austin, TX
        Host:           John Kingman            <kingman@austin.ibm.com>

June 18 - 19, 1996:     Firmworks,              Mountain View, CA
        Host:           Mitch Bradley           <wmb@firmworks.com>
        Directions to Firmworks available on http://www.firmworks.com

        NOTE for June meeting: June 18,19 is a tentative date, Mitch
        to check availability.  Alternate date is June 24, 25.


7- Administrative Trivia

Luan announced that he would like to resign from being the IEEE 1275 
committee's due to his new IBM assignment. He also nominated John Kingman
to be the new secretary. The committee votes uninamously to appoint John
to this position.
With the request from the chair person, the committee officially recognized Luan's contribution this IEEE standard.
The committee requested Luan to perform the secretary functions during this 
meeting until he has to leave and John to take it over when he leaves.


8- ISA/EISA/ISA PNP binding

The committee reviewed changes made in the version 0.05 dated October 11, 1995
and resolved all 27 input from IBM AIX except item #18 which is tabled for the
next review. Bob Coffin also agreed to take over the responsibility to be the 
owner/editor of this document from Luan Nguyen. Based on the input of the
committee, Bob will update this version accordingly and put it on our Web page
for future review.


9- Proposal Status:

291: Accepted as ammended 8-1-1

        If the default mode is -1, a suitable default
        is chosen:

                if i/o: w=1, i=1, g=1, pp=10
                if mem: g=1, pp=10

        Strike the second paragraph.

        The third paragraph is noted for a future revision
        of errata (current errata is closed.)

294:    Passed/Ammended 7-0-2

        XCTL -> xctl
        DMA -> dma
        underscores -> spaces
        Change english text to verb first (i.e. 'enable interrupt')

295:  Tabled:

        The committee decided to document a device's capabilities,
        and not document the current setting of the device.
        Since the proposal documents 'current settings' rather
        than capabilities, this was tabled as we anxiously await
        a revised proposal from the submitter.

296:  Accepted as ammended 9-0-0

        The editor is directed to use proper normative language.

        ... passed to _write_ or returned from _read_

        Change "signed" to "unsigned".

        Delete the stanza deleting the properties.

        Delete the stanza deleting the 'read' method.

        ... for subsequent reads and/or writes.

        ... in the definition of "read" and "write" ...


297: Accepted as ammended:

        Add 'size' method with wording to be specified by the editor.
        (Some manu. specific areas may be excluded from 'size', the
        area is not available.)

298: Remand to binding committee

299: Remand to binding committee

300: Closed/Withdrawn by author

301: Remand to binding committee

302: Remand to binding committee

303: Passed/Ammended 9-0-1:

        Add an FCode driver example note to the PCI binding
        (to be supplied by Mitch).

304: Closed/Withdrawn by author (See #305)

305: Closed/Handled by the binding committee (see binding committee
     minutes)


10- Action Items Summary

Old AIs left:
 See section 5 on Action Items Review in this note

New AIs:
  * Mitch Bradley:
    - Check on June meeting dates
    - work on tristatable bit
    - work on map-in
  * Jordan Brown:
    - work on PCI "reg" address resolution
    - reorganize discussion of probing in ISA binding
    - Suggest wording for IRQ 2 vs 9
    - Add size method for NVRAM
    - edit sound stuff
  * Ron Hochsprung
    - update ranges properties and usage in PCI binding



[ P1275 Item #309 -- Received: Wed Jan 24 13:40:25 PST 1996 ]

