From: kingman@austin.ibm.com (John Kingman)
Subject: Item #339: Administrivia: OFWG Agenda for April/May Meeting
Date: Mon, 22 Apr 1996 14:58:03 -0500 (CDT)

P1275 Open Firmware Working Group Proposal -- Proposal #339 Ver <Auth-Vers#>

Title:          OFWG Agenda for April/May Meeting

Author:         John Kingman

Dear Open Firmware Working Group Members,

Attached is the agenda for the Open Firmware Working Group meeting to be
held at IBM, Austin, TX on Tuesday April 30, 1996 and Wednesday May 1, 1996. 
See below for directions to the meeting.

Please check below for any Action Items assigned to you. For those with
Action Items who cannot come to the meeting, please send me the status of
your item(s) by e-mail by 8:00AM Central Time Monday, April 29, 1996.

Thanks.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Times are Central Daylight Savings Time:

Tuesday April 30, 1996

     9:15AM     - Meet at IBM, (see note below for directions)
                     Light breakfast to be provided by IBM.
     9:30AM   1 - Introduction
              2 - Review Agenda
              3 - Administrative/Procedural Items
              4 - Review and approve minutes from the last meeting
              5 - Future Meetings
              6 - Standard Progress Report
                     P1275.3 (VME - IEEE 1014 bus)
                     P1275.6: 64-bit Extension Supplement for Open Firmware
                        - Status on experimental compatibility work from
                          David Kahn and/or Mitch Bradley (Action Item #5)
                     P1275.a Errata to 1275-1994 (Core Errata)
              7 - Action Items Review (see note below)
              8 - Other Pending/Tabled items
    12:00M      - Break for LUNCH
     1:00PM   9 - Proposal Status Review
             10 - Document Reviews (including associated proposals, if any)
                    PCI Bus Binding
                    Recommended Practices
                        Generic Names
			Interrupt Mapping
                        Network Support
     5:00PM     - Break for the day

Wednesday May 1, 1996

     9:15AM     - Meet at IBM
                     Light breakfast to be provided by IBM.
     9:30AM  10 - Document Reviews (cont'd)
                    Recommended Practices (cont'd)
                        Forth and FCode
                    ISA/EISA/ISA PNP Bus Binding
                    PowerPC Processor Binding
                    Device Support Extensions
    12:00M      - Break for LUNCH
     1:00PM     - New Proposals
     2:00PM     - Introduction to CHRP Bindings
     3:30PM     - Summarize/Assign action items and Wrap up
     4:00PM     - Adjourn


NOTES:
------
Action Items:

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  | No.|Who         |Description                                           |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  1 |Ron H.      |Check on TI licensing/royalty on NuBus that may       |
  |    |            |provide a path to solve the patent issue.             |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  2 |Editors of  |Update document template and contents per discussion. |
  |    |Recommended |                                                      |
  |    |Practice    |                                                      |
  |    |documents   |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  4 |David K.    |Standard properties document.                         |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  5 |David K.    |Report on 64-bit experimental work.                   |
  |    |Mitch B.    |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  6 |Ron H.      |Work on "reg"/"assigned-addresses"/base address       |
  |    |David K.    |registers in the PCI binding.                         |
  |    |Greg        |                                                      |
  |    |Jordan B.   |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  7 |Jordan B.   |Work on names, unit-address... in ISA binding         |
  |    |Lilian W.   |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  9 |Mitch B.    |Work on tristatable bit                               |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 11 |Jordan B.   |Reorganize discussion of probing in ISA binding       |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 12 |Jordan B.   |Suggest wording for IRQ 2 vs 9                        |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 14 |Jordan B.   |Edit sound stuff                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 15 |Ron H.      |Update ranges properties and usage in PCI binding     |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 17 |Ron H.      |Prepare proposal for Code Page selection.             |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 18 |David K.    |Clarify subcommittee feedback loop                    |
  |    |John K.     |                                                      |
  |    |Bob C.      |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 19 |David K.    |Update status of remanded items & documents           |
  |    |John K.     |                                                      |
  |    |Bob C.      |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 20 |Ron H.      |Update Proposal #308 as amended                       |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 21 |Ron H.      |Update Proposal #310 with new wording (talk to Tom    |
  |    |            |Caron)                                                |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 22 |Ron H.      |Update PCI Binding 4.2.1 for non-relocatable PCI      |
  |    |            |devices (see #323a above)                             |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 23 |Greg H.     |recommended practice for output devices (e.g. VGA)    |
  |    |            |talk to Mitch Bradley (see #323b above)               |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 24 |Ron H.      |talk to Mitch Bradley to clarify line-end for #322    |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Subcommittee Action Items:
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  | S1 |Bob C.      | Update Generic Names Recommended Practice            |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S2 |Ron H.      | Update and create v1.1 Forth and FCode Rec Practice  |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S3 |John K.     | Produce PPC Processor v1.10 draft                    |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S4 |Bob C.      | Make "shared-bus-master" proposal                    |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S5 |Ron H.      | Make "chording" proposal                             |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S6 |Bob C.      | Produce new Device Support Extensions draft          |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S7 |Bob C.      | Produce 0.2 Draft of ISA binding                     |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S8 |Mitch B.    | Propose that debug facilities not be supported       |
  |    |            | in real-mode.                                        |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------


Directions and hotel information:

  The meeting will be held in Dining Rooms A/B of Building 045 which is the 
  rusty looking building on the corner of Burnet Road and Braker Lane.  If 
  you haven't been to the site before, here are some general directions.  
  The IBM main site is located in northwest Austin.  The main north/south 
  arteries are Interstate 35 and Loop 1 (also called MoPac) and each has an 
  exit for Braker Lane.  From I35, go west to Burnet Road and turn right.  
  From Loop 1 go east to Burnet Road and turn left.  Take a left into the 
  entrance at Kramer Lane and then an immediate left again.  You should see 
  signs directing you to Building 045.

  The entrance to the building is on the north side and there is visitor 
  parking near the entrance.  

  Nearby hotels include the Stouffer Hotel (800-433-2241) and Holiday Inn 
  Northwest (800-465-4329).  For more Austin information, check 
     ftp://ftp.austin.ibm.com/pub/OpenFirmware/misc/austin.html


[ P1275 Item #339 -- Received: Mon Apr 22 12:56:43 PDT 1996 ]

