Message-Id: <9606191837.AA29735@tardis.austin.ibm.com>
Subject: Item #368: Administrivia: OFWG Agenda for June Meeting
Date: Wed, 19 Jun 1996 13:37:16 -0500 (CDT)

P1275 Open Firmware Working Group Proposal -- Proposal #368 Ver <Auth-Vers#>

Title:          OFWG Agenda for June Meeting

Author:         John Kingman

To:             Open Firmware Working Group Members,

Attached is the agenda for the Open Firmware Working Group meeting to be
held at Firmworks, Mountain View, CA on Tuesday June 25, 1996 and Wednesday 
June 26, 1996. Directions and hotel information are available at:

        http://playground.sun.com/pub/1275

Please check below for any Action Items assigned to you. For those with
Action Items who cannot come to the meeting, please send me the status of
your item(s) by e-mail by 8:00AM Central Time Monday, June 24, 1996.

Thanks.

John Kingman, Secretary Open Firmware Working Group
kingman@austin.ibm.com

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Times are Pacific Daylight Savings Time:

Tuesday June 25, 1996

     9:15AM     - Meet at Firmworks, (see note below for directions)
                     Light breakfast to be provided by Firmworks.
     9:30AM   1 - Introduction
              2 - Review Agenda
              3 - Administrative/Procedural Items
              4 - Review and approve minutes from the last meeting
              5 - Future Meetings
              6 - Standard Progress Report
                     P1275.3 (VME - IEEE 1014 bus)
                     P1275.6: 64-bit Extension Supplement for Open Firmware
                        - Status on experimental compatibility work from
                          David Kahn and/or Mitch Bradley (Action Item #5)
                     P1275.a Errata to 1275-1994 (Core Errata)
              7 - Action Items Review (see note below)
              8 - Other Pending/Tabled items
    12:00M      - Break for LUNCH
     1:00PM   9 - Proposal Status Review
             10 - Document Reviews (including associated proposals, if any)
                    Recommended Practices
                        TFTP Booting Extension Version 0.6 (#364)
			Interrupt Mapping Version 0.8 (#365)
     5:00PM     - Break for the day

Wednesday June 26, 1996

     9:15AM     - Meet at Firmworks
                     Light breakfast to be provided by Firmworks.
     9:30AM  10 - Document Reviews (cont'd)
                    CHRP System Binding Revision 1.5 (#357)
                    CHRP Device Bindings Revision: 1.0 (#359)
                    ISA/EISA/ISA-PnP binding, Version 0.2 (#362)
                    PowerPC Processor Binding Revision 1.10 (#363)
    12:00M      - Break for LUNCH
     1:00PM  10 - Document Reviews (cont'd)
                    PCI Bus Binding Revision 1.75 (#366)
                    Others?
     1:30PM     - Summarize/Assign action items and Wrap up
     2:00PM     - Adjourn


NOTES:
------
Action Items:

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  | No.|Who         |Description                                           |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  2 |Editors of  |Update document template and contents per discussion. |
  |    |Recommended |                                                      |
  |    |Practice    |                                                      |
  |    |documents   |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  4 |David K.    |Standard properties document.                         |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  6 |Ron H.      |Work on "reg"/"assigned-addresses"/base address       |
  |    |Jordan B.   |registers in the PCI binding.                         |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  7 |Jordan B.   |Work on names, unit-address... in ISA binding         |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 11 |Jordan B.   |Reorganize discussion of probing in ISA binding       |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 12 |Jordan B.   |Suggest wording for IRQ 2 vs 9                        |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 24 |Ron H.      |talk to Mitch Bradley to clarify line-end for #322    |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 25 |Ron H.      |Work out use of probe-pci with Paul Thomas (#349)     |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Subcommittee Action Items:
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  | S2 |Ron H.      | Update and create v1.1 Forth and FCode Rec Practice  |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S4 |Bob C.      | Make "shared-bus-master" proposal                    |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S5 |Ron H.      | Make "chording" proposal                             |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S8 |Mitch B.    | Propose that debug facilities not be supported       |
  |    |            | in real-mode.                                        |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S9 |John K.     |Get with Bill Rees and clarify #330                   |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

[ P1275 Item #368 -- Received: Wed Jun 19 11:36:20 PDT 1996 ]

