From: kingman@austin.ibm.com (Kingman)
Subject: Item #387: Administrative: OFWG Minutes for August Meeting
Date: Thu, 22 Aug 1996 15:19:36 -0500 (CDT)

P1275 Open Firmware Working Group Proposal -- Proposal #387 Ver <Auth-Vers#>

Title:          Minutes of August Open Firmware Working Group meeting

Author:         John Kingman

Date:           August 22, 1996

Attached please find the minutes of our last meeting held August 13, and
August 14, 1996 at Apple, Cupertino, CA.  Thanks to Ron for making the 
arrangements.

Also please note that: (1) our next meeting will be at Motorola in
Tempe, AZ, on October 8-9, 1996 and (2) check the "Action Item Summary"
at the end of this note for your action items.

Regards,

John Kingman, Secretary Open Firmware Working Group
kingman@austin.ibm.com

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

1- Attendees
   =========

John Kingman      IBM RS/6000 Div.   512-838-1546 kingman@austin.ibm.com
                  Secretary OFWG
Chris Bellman     Adaptec	     408-945-8600 cbellman@corp.adaptec.com
Jordan Brown      Sunsoft            310-348-6039 jordan.brown@west.sun.com
Greg Hill         Firmworks          415-917-6985 GREGH@FIRMWORKS.COM
Ron Hochsprung    Apple/Sys. Arch.   408-974-2661 ron@apple.com
John Hall         Sun                415-786-6927 JDHall@eng.sun.com
Bob Coffin        IBM                512-838-8240 coffin@vnet.ibm.com
John Dickol       IBM                512-838-6005 dickol@vnet.ibm.com 
Thomas J. Merritt CodeGen	     415-346-8762 tjm@cgt.com
David Paktor      Sun                408-774-8306 Paktor@SUN.com
Ping Lee          Apple              408-974-6956 pingl@apple.com

First time attendees:
Chris Maloney     Motorola           602-437-6716 CMaloney@phx.mcd.mot.com
Michael Milendorf Sun                508-442-0803 michael.milendorf@
							east.sun.com
Part time attendees:
Conrad Minshall   Apple		     408-252-3377 conrad@apple.com
Mitch Bradley     Firmworks	     415-917-6984 wmb@firmworks.com

2- Review Agenda
   =============

   Proposed agenda (#386) was reviewed and approved unanimously with right 
   of revision to the Secretary.

3- Administrative/Procedural items
   ===============================

   None raised.

4- Last meeting minutes review
   ===========================

   Voted to approve the minutes of the meeting of June 25, 1996 (#356) 
   (unanimous)

5- Future Meetings
   ===============

   October 8 - 9, 1996		Motorola, Tempe, AZ
				Host: Rob Baxter

   January 14 - 15, 1997	TBD, Salt Lake City, UT (?)
				Host: David Kahn to arrange

   March 4 - 5, 1997		IBM, Austin, TX
				Host: John Dickol

6- Standard Progress Report
   ========================

   No new status.

7- Action Items Review
   ===================

   -2-  open   - skip
   -4-  open   - no change
   -6-  closed - new PCI binding available
   -11- open   - no change
   -12- open   - no change
   -26- open   - no change

8- Other Pending/Tabled items
   ==========================

   #250  (Email balloting procedure) 
	-- open - skip
   #322  (Forth source and FCode image support) 
	-- open - no change
   #323b (change to *output* definition) 
	-- withdrawn, JB to make a proposal with new wording.
   #336  (posting of Generic Names 1.1) 
	-- closed - superceded

9- New Proposal Status summary
   ===========================

   #369 -- (PCI) Approved
   #370 -- (64-bit) Open, tabled
   #374 -- (Minutes) Closed, Accepted
   #375 -- (SCSI-3 Parallel) Tabled
   #376 -- (CHRP) Remanded to subcommittee
   #377 -- (CHRP) Remanded to subcommittee
   #378 -- (TFTP) Approved as amended
   #379 -- (TFTP) Approved as amended
   #380 -- (PCI) Approved as amended
   #381 -- (PC kbmc) Approved
   #382 -- (PC kbd) Approved as amended
   #383 -- (base) Withdrawn 
   #384 -- (PC serial) Approved as amended
   #386 -- (Agenda) Closed, Accepted

10- Document Reviews (including associated proposals, if any)
    ================

  PCI Binding
  -----------
    Revision 2.0
    #369 (available property for bus nodes) 
	-- approved unanimously
    #380 (Include pci class code string in 'compatible')
	-- approved as amended unanimously
	Amendments:
	- form of name shall be "pciclass,NNNNNN"
	- NNNNNN shall be lower case hex including leading zeroes.
	- delete the last sentence of the paragraph 

	Editor directed to create Approved Version 2.1 11-0-0

  TFTP Booting Recommended Practice
  ---------------------------------
    Version 0.7 
    #378 (Property Values)
	-- approved as amended
	Amendments:
	- delete "15pin" wherever it occurs
        - update fddi connectors
    #379 (Open Argument values) 
	-- approved as amended (1 abstension)
	Amendments:
	- change target document to DSE (add Network section)
	- move section 5 from TFTP to DSE

  Base
  ----
    #383 (clarifications on MEMORY-TEST-SUITE and MASK)
	-- withdrawn by author; author to submit a clarification.
	Comments:
	- memory-test-suite may not work for PCI memory on a big endian
	  platform.  Need statements somewhere about situations in which 
	  memory-test-suite is likely not to work and guidance for making
	  an endian independent memory-test-suite.
	AI for WMB/DMK to take a to look at 64-bit MASK  
	
  SCSCI-3 Parallel Interface Binding
  ----------------------------------
    #375 (proposal of Draft 1)
	-- Tabled 
	- The attendees wished to defer discussion until Mitch Bradley 
	  and/or David Kahn were present.

  PC keyboard/mouse controller binding
  ------------------------------------
    #381 (proposal of Version 0.3) 
	-- approved
    The editor is directed to produce Approved Version 1.0	
	
  PC keyboard binding
  -------------------
    #382 (proposal of Version 0.3)
	-- approved with amendments
    Amendments:
	- fix [3] "???"
	- fix "??" at XT keyboard in section 4
	- add references for ANSI/ISO
	- mention "Windows 95" keyboard in section 5
	- section 6 -- delete bracketed text -- "none" for now
	- end of 7.2.1 delete "or empty"
	- 7.2.2 keyboard indicators should match	
	- copy abort sequence from DSE to this doc.
	- specify open arguments
	- Move list of layouts in 7.1.2 to an appendix/registry.
    The editor is directed to produce Approved Version 1.0

  PC Serial Port Device Binding
  -----------------------------
    #384 (proposal of Version 0.99)
	-- approved with amendments 10-0-1
    Amendments:
	- move 7.2 contents to DSE
	- strike bracketed note at 9.1
	- 9.1 last para -- change "devices which are" to "devices
          that are"
	- change "pnp500's" to "may" instead of "should"
    The editor is directed to produce Approved Version 1.0

11- Action Items Summary
    ====================

    The following AIs are still open: 

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  | No.|Who         |Description                                           |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  2 |Editors of  |Update document template and contents per discussion. |
  |    |Recommended |                                                      |
  |    |Practice    |                                                      |
  |    |documents   |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  4 |Greg H.     |Standard properties document.                         |
  |    |John H.     |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 11 |Jordan B.   |Reorganize discussion of probing in ISA binding       |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 12 |Jordan B.   |Suggest wording for IRQ 2 vs 9                        |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 26 |David K.    |Meeting details for January                           |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

    New  AIs:

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  | No.|Who         |Description                                           |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 27 |Jordan B.   |Propose replacement for #323b (withdrawn)             |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 28 |Ron H.      |Make a proposal for PCI hot plug                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 29 |Mitch B.    |Do we need to clarify MASK in 64-bit mode for         |
  |    |David K.    |(mem-test-suite)?                                     |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 30 |Jordan B.   |Make a proposal for a registry for lists of supported |
  |    |            |things (e.g., keyboards, network types, etc.)         |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

SUBCOMMITTEE MINUTES:

Attendees
=========

John Kingman      IBM RSD           512-838-1546 kingman@austin.ibm.com
Ron Hochsprung    Apple/Sys. Arch.  408-974-2661 ron@apple.com
Bob Coffin        IBM               512-838-8240 coffin@vnet.ibm.com
Greg Hill         Firmworks         415-917-6985 GREGH@FIRMWORKS.COM
Jordan Brown      Sunsoft           310-348-6039 jordan.brown@west.sun.com
John Dickol       IBM               512-838-6005 dickol@vnet.ibm.com 
Ping Lee          Apple             408-974-6956 pingl@apple.com
David Paktor      Sun               408-774-8306 Paktor@SUN.com
Chris Maloney     Motorola          602-437-6716 CMaloney@phx.mcd.mot.com
Michael Milendorf Sun               508-442-0803 michael.milendorf@
							east.sun.com

Review Agenda
=============

 Agenda:
 - establish quorum
 - review minutes
 - review AIs
 - review documents and proposals

Establish Quorum
================

 Quorum established 

Review minutes of last meeting
==============================

 Voted to approve the minutes of the subcommittee meeting of June 26,
 1996 (#374). (unanimous)

Action Item Review
==================
 -S2- Open   - no change.
 -S4- Open   - no change.
 -S5- Open   - no change.
 -S8- Open   - no change.
 -S9- Closed - Item #330 rejected for lack of rationale 
-S10- Closed - New PreP binding available.
-S11- Closed - New Generic Names RP available.
-S12- Closed - New 8042 device binding available.
-S13- Closed - New serial device binding available.
-S14- Closed - Jordan unable to come up with a "name" convention for
               superio chips.

Review Documents and Proposals
==============================

  Device Support Extensions version 0.7, 0.7+
  -------------------------------------------
	#350 ("sound" device properties)
		(proposal was previously tabled)
	    - Discussion of sample-frame-sizes 
		RC and JB to resolve
	    - Missing sample rate (8 KHz)
	    - possibly add a figure to help (AI for JB)
	Serial -- check about what "Not supported" means
	Network -- added section (0.7+)
	    - Say something about passing unrecognized parms to TFTP
		(Open arguments, etc., check with MB)
	    - Add in section 9 what you read and write (GH AI)
	    - add network to 13 (/aliases) 
    Produce 0.8 for next meeting

  CHRP Device bindings version 1.0
  --------------------------------
	#359 (proposal for CHRP device bindings)
	-- Closed administratively 
	   - proposals to review individual bindings will be
	     submitted, as appropriate.
	#361 (CHRP 8259: add "reserved-interrupts" property)
	-- withdrawn by author
	   - updated binding to be submitted

  Generic Names Version 1.2
  -------------------------
	Suggested changes:
	- Update section 3 - names and "shall" in guideline 2
	- Move section 6 info to PCI binding
	- Make section 7 "(Informative)"
		line 46 insert "if" before "software"
		line 55 "identity" misspelled
    Produce 1.3 for next meeting

  ISA/EISA/ISA-PnP Binding Version 0.3 
  ------------------------------------
	Suggested changes:
	- Add slot-index as a child property to be used with slot-names	
	- Update compatible as follows to include the "FFF" to denote
          which logical function this node is related to.

		1a) If the device has multiple logical devices:
			pnpVVV,PPPP,FFF	
		    where
			VVV,PPPP is the PnP vendor ID for the card
			FFF is the number of the logical device with
			0 denoting the first logical device, 1 denoting
			the second, and so on.

		1b) If the device has only a single logical device:
			pnpVVV,PPPP
		    where
			VVV,PPPP is the PnP vendor ID for the card

		2)  If a logical device ID is supplied:
			pnpVVV,PPPP
		    where 
			VVV,PPPP is the PnP logical device ID.

		3)  If one or more PnP "compatible ID" record is supplied,
		    then for each record in order:
			pnpVVV,PPPP
		    where
			VVV,PPPP is the PnP compatible ID.
  
	- page 16, line 9 spelling of "encode"
    Produce 0.4 for next meeting

  CHRP System Binding
  -------------------
    #357 (Revision 1.5 posting)
	-- closed administratively
    #360 (Genericize Open PIC controller name)
	-- withdrawn by author (included in latest revision)
    #376 (chosen nvram)
	-- approved as amended:
		- add to the note in DSE that the size returned by the size 
		  method will be the platform defined nvram size. OF/OS 
		  should only address nvram from 0 up to this size-1.
    #377 (internal (dummy) nodes)
	-- approved as amended:
		- change to "internal" to "reserved"
		- add device_type of reserved
    Revision 1.6
	Suggested changes:
		- delete lines 13-21 on page 32
		- change "property" to "node" on line 30
		- Make ICU "should" instead of "shall" -- may need an ACR
	        - PE format discussion (16MB is new req.) -- may need an ACR
	        - add "encode-unit" and "decode-unit" to Section 5.1.3.2 (ROM 
	          Node Methods) and include arguments for "set-args"
	        - clarify Section 5.1.4.1 (ROM Child Node Properties) that
	          "reg" specifies the ROM base address and length.
    Produce 1.7 (Approved Version) for next meeting

  Interrupt Mapping Recommended Practice Version 0.9
  --------------------------------------------------
	Suggested change:
	- Note that if the "interrupt-map" property is absent for an interrupt
          parent node that the identity map is to be used.
    Produce 1.0 (Approved Version) for next meeting


Action Items Summary
====================

Old AIs still open: 

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  | No.|Who         |Description                                           |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S2 |Ron H.      | Update and create v1.1 Forth and FCode Rec Practice  |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S4 |Bob C.      | Make "shared-bus-master" proposal                    |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S5 |Ron H.      | Make "chording" (keyboard) proposal                  |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S8 |Mitch B.    | Propose that debug facilities not be supported       |
  |    |            | in real-mode.                                        |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

New AIs:

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  | No.|Who         |Description                                           |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S14|Jordan B.   | Create a picture to explain sound device terminology.|
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S15|Greg H.     | Provide material for TFTP section 9 describing what  | 
  |    |            | is read and written                                  |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S16|Bob C.      | Migrate PReP source to playground                    |
  |    |Jordan B.   |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S17|Bob C.      | Resolve sample-frame-sizes description               |
  |    |Jordan B.   |                                                      |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

[ P1275 Item #387 -- Received: Thu Aug 22 13:18:36 PDT 1996 ]

