From: "Richard L. Arndt" <rlarndt@austin.ibm.com>
Subject: Item #422: Minutes 15 Jul 97 OFWG
Date: Fri, 18 Jul 97 13:09:25 -0500


P1275 Openboot Working Group Proposal -- Proposal #:422 Ver 1

Title:          Minutes 15 Jul 97 OFWG

Author:         Richard L. Arndt

Date:           19 July 1997

Ed/Tech:        Administrative

Synopsis:        Minutes of the 15 July 1997  Open Firmware Working
                 Group Meeting Firmworks Mountain View , Ca. 



++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

 0- Attendees (OFWG)
   =================

Richard Arndt	       IBM	   512-838-8502 rlarndt@austin.ibm.com
Mitch Bradley          Firmworks   415-917-6984 wmb@firmworks.com
Ron Hochsprung         Apple/      408-974-2661 ron@apple.com
                       System Arch
Tracy Hallock          Motorola    512-891-6905 Tracy_Hallock@risc.sps.mot.com
                       RISC SW
David Kahn             Sun         415-786-6203 dmk@eng.sun.com
Michael Milendorf      Sun         508-442-0803 michael.milendorf@east.sun.com
Bruce Rosenkrantz      Motorola    602-438-3745 brosen@phx.mcd.mot.com
Rick Foos              Motorola    512-891-5084 Rick_Foos@risc.sps.mot.com
Tarl Neustaedter       Sun         508-442-0346 tarl@east.sun.com
James Beninghaus       UMAX        408-327-8764 beninghaus@supermac.com
John Hall              Apple       408-974-6862 jdhall@apple.com
Chris Bellman          Adaptec     408-945-8600 dbellman@corp.adaptec.com
T. J. Merritt          CodeBen     415-834-9111 tjm@codegen.com

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++


  1- Establish quorum & Voting rights
     ================================

The Vice Chair (David Kahn) declared that a quorum existed and
established the voting rights of the attendees.

  2- Appoint New Secretary to replace Bob Coffin.
     ===========================================

Richard Arndt of IBM was nominated and elected 12 to 1.  Many thanks
to Bob Coffin for his service as past secretary.

  3- Review Agenda (Item #413)
     =============

The proposed agenda was reviewed (see revisions below) and approved
with right of revision to the Vice Chair.

	A. Items #414, #419, & #420 arrived after the original
           publishing of the proposed agenda and were added.

	B. The Vice Chair rearranged the order of discussion for
           the new binding proposals #414, $408, and #407 moving them
           to the end of the agenda.

  4- Approve Minutes of Salt Lake City Meeting (Item # 406)
     ======================================================

The minutes of the Salt Lake City meeting were approved with the
following amendments:

	A. Correction of the spelling of Tracy Hallock's name.

	B. Notation that Mitch Bradley suffered a case of frost bite.

	C. Notation that the April 15th Austin, Tx. meeting was
           subsequently canceled.

  5- Future Meetings:
     ================

The next two meetings were scheduled as follows:

	Date			Host Location
	----			-------------

	11 Nov 1997		Firmworks Mountain View, Ca.

	10 Feb 1998		Motorola Tempi, Az.

Make your reservations now for these incredibly desirable destinations!

  6- Status of Action Items:
     =======================

	#  |  Status			#  |  Status
	============			============
	2  |  Ongoing			S2 |  Ongoing
	-------------			-------------
	4  |  Ongoing			S4 |  Change owner to Richard Arndt
	-------------			-------------
	11 |  Ongoing			S5 |  Ongoing
	-------------			-------------
	12 |  Ongoing			S8 |  Closed (Simple Assertion)
	-------------			-------------
	27 |  Ongoing			S14|  ?????    
	-------------			-------------
	28 |  Ongoing			S16|  Closed
	-------------			-------------
	30 |  Ongoing
	-------------
	31 |  Closed #401


  7- Other Pending/Tabled items
    ===========================

   #250 (Email balloting procedure)
         -- open - skip




  8- New Proposals:
     ==============


	Item #404: SCSI Annex retry improvements

The proposal passed without objection.  David Kahn is directed to
publish documentation changes to the repositories (Action item #32).

	Item #407: VME Bus: VME Bus binding d9

Approved contingent upon the author modifying the "boilerplate" from
IEEE Standard to Open Firmware Recommended Practice (Action Item #37).

	Item #408: Proposed Bus Binding for IEEE 1394/firewire

The working group made numerous suggestions to the author.  The
proposal was subsequently withdrawn and the author will re-submit a
formal Binding draft document incorporating the working group's feed
back (Action Item #38).

	Item #409: Set-Resolution method for graphics drivers

The sense of the working group was that this proposal was insufficient
to address the problems in all but the most degenerate cases.  Mitch
Bradley proposed the addition of a property to reflect all display
modes supported by the adapter along with those supported by the
rendering firmware plus methods for reporting the current mode and
switching modes.

Proposal 409 as submitted was rejected, however, the working group
recommended that Dave Paktor be encouraged to re-submit a proposal
following the outline suggested by Mitch Bradley.  Mitch volunteered to
act as a resource in the writing of the proposal (Action Item #33).

	Item #410: Proposal for "dma-ranges" Standard Property

The proposal passed with the following clarifications, and David Kahn
was authorized to publish it as a recommended practice (Action Item
#34).
	Clarifications:
		A. This practice defines a standard property which, if
                   it exists, defines a fixed translation between the
                   DMA space and system address space. 
		B. The degenerate case of the "dam-ranges" property in
                   the root node reflects a fixed translation
                   performed by the platform's core logic.
		C. While the "dma-ranges" property is, in general,
                   optional, it may become a required component of
                   certain bindings.  

	Item #411: MacOS HFS File System Support

The working group made numerous suggestions to the author.  The author
subsequently withdrew the proposal and will work electronically with
members of the CHRP sub group (specifically Richard Arndt and Bruce
Rosenkrantz) to re-submit the proposal (Action Item #S17).

	Item #414: PCI-IDE Device Binding

The working group made several suggestions (see partial list below) to
the author.  The author subsequently withdrew the proposal.  The
working group authorized the author to produce a formal draft binding
based upon this proposal as augmented by the discussion (Action Item
#35). 
	Partial list of suggestions:
		A. The "reg" property shall have at least 6 entries.
		B. A proposal shall be submitted correcting the
                   limitations on "reg" property entries specified in
                   the PCI binding (Action Item #36).
		C. Add sections enumerating Textual & Numerical
                   representations of the 'reg" property per standard
                   practices. 
		E. Add the following text after the second paragraph
                   of the proposal:

Some IDE bus controllers (e.g. Winbond) have a sixth base address              
register at offset 0x24 which is used for PIO mode disk drives. This           
register if present, should be in the reg property (last) which would          
make the total number of entries in the reg property seven.

	Item #419: Backslash in Bootinfo Entities &directory and
                   &filename 

Passed without objection.

	Item #420: PCI Binding:  Correction to dma-map-in stack
                   diagram 

Passed without objection.



	9- Action Items Summary:
	   =====================

   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | No.|Who         |Description                                    |Status|
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   |  2 |Editors of  |Update document template and contents per      | Open |
   |    |Recommended |discussion.                                    |      |
   |    |Practice    |                                               |      |
   |    |documents   |                                               |      |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   |  4 |Greg H.     |Standard properties document.                  | Open |
   |    |John H.     |                                               |      |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 11 |Jordan B.   |Reorganize discussion of probing in ISA binding| Open |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 12 |Jordan B.   |Suggest wording for IRQ 2 vs 9 ISA binding     | Open |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 27 |Jordan B.   |Propose replacement for #323b (withdrawn)      | Open |
   |--- |------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 28 |Ron H.      |Make a proposal for PCI 'hot plug'.            | Open |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 30 |Jordan B.   |Make a proposal for a registry for lists of    | Open |
   |    |            |supported things.                              |      | 
   |    |            |(e.g.. kybds, network types, etc.)             |      |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 31 |Mitch B.    |Make a proposal to correct SPI binding sense   |Closed|
   |    |            |key  (media not being present)                 |#401  |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | 32 |David K.    |Publish Item #404                              | New  |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 33 |David P.    |Propose display-modes property along with      | New  |
   |    |Mitch B.    |set & read display modes methods               |      |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 34 |David K.    |Publish Item #410                              | New  |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 35 |Ron H.      |Create formal PCI-IDE device binding document  | New  |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 36 |???         |Proposal for correcting the limitations on the | New  |
   |    |            |"reg" property entries specified in the PCI    |      |
   |    |            |binding.                                       |      |
   |--- |------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 37 |David P.    |Modify "boilerplate" on VME bus binding.       | New  |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 38 |Tarl N.     |Create a formal 1394 binding                   | New  |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 39 |Richard A.  |Update CHRP source to reflect item #419        | New  |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 40 |???         |Update PCI  source to reflect item #420        | New  |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|



 Subcommittee Action Items:
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S2 |Ron H.      | Update and create v1.1 Forth and FCode Rec    | Open |
   |    |            | Practice                                      |      |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S4 |Richard A.  | Make "shared-bus-master" proposal             | Open |
   |    |            | (Multi-initiator SCSI)                        |      |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S5 |Ron H.      | Make "chording" proposal                      | Open |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S8 |Mitch B.    | Propose that debug facilities not be supported|Closed|
   |    |            | in real-mode.                                 |      |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S14|Jordan B.   | Create a picture to explain sound device      | ???  |
   |    |            | terminology.                                  |      |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S16|Bob C.      | Migrate PReP source to playground             |Closed|
   |    |Jordan B.   |                                               |      |
   |-----------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   |S17 |Ron H.      |Regenerate a proposal for Mac OS HFS File      | New  |
   |    |Bruce R.    |system support.                                |      |
   |    |Richard A.  |                                               |      |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|



[ P1275 Item #422 -- Received: Fri Jul 18 11:10:31 PDT 1997 ]

