From: kingman@austin.ibm.com (John Kingman)
Subject: Item #329:  OFWG Minutes 03/06/96
Date: Fri, 22 Mar 1996 16:19:22 -0600 (CST)

P1275 Open Firmware Working Group Proposal -- Proposal #329 Ver <Auth-Vers#>

Title:          Minutes of Open Firmware Working Group meeting on 03/05/1996

Author:         John Kingman

Date:           March 5-6, 1996

Dear IEEE 1275-1994 Working Group members,

Attached please find the minutes of our last meeting on March 5, 1996, at
Apple, Cupertino, CA.  Thanks to Ron Hochsprung for making the arrangements.

Also please note that: (1) our next meeting will be on April 30-May 1st 
at IBM, Austin, TX, and (2) check the "Action Item Summary" at the
end of this note for your action items.

Regards,

John Kingman, Secretary Open Firmware Working Group
kingman@austin.ibm.com
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

1- Attendees

David M. Kahn  Sun Microsystems     415-336-2784 dmk@Eng.Sun.Com
               Vice Chairman Open Firmware Working Group
John Kingman   IBM Risc System/6000 512-838-1546 kingman@austin.ibm.com
               Secretary Open Firmware Working Group
Ron Hochsprung Apple/Sys. Arch.     408-974-2661 ron@apple.com
Chris M Bellman Adaptec, Inc.       408-945-8600 cbellman@corp.adpatec.com
Satoru Mamiya  FirePower Systems    415-462-3009 mamiya@Firepower.com
John Hall      Sun Microsystems     415-786-6927 John.Hall@eng.sun.com
John  Dickol   IBM                  512-838-6005 dickol@vnet.ibm.com 
Bob Coffin     IBM                  512-838-8240 coffin@vnet.ibm.com
Tuyen Tran     BusLogic	            408-492-9090 <none supplied>
John Rible     Quicksand            408-458-0399 jrible@quicksand.com
Thomas J. Merritt CodeGen, Inc.     415-346-8762 tjm@cgt.com
Parag Patel    CodeGen, Inc.        408-370-7976 parag@cgt.com
Greg Hill      Firmworks            415-917-6985 GREGH@FIRMWORKS.COM
David Paktor   HAL                  408-379-7000x1366 PAKTOR@HAL.COM

2- Review Agenda

Proposed agenda was reviewed and approved unanimously.

3- Administrative/Procedural items

-- Clarify status of and procedure for items remanded to a subcommittee
  to be returned to the working group. <DK/JK/BC>

-- Ensure that the OFWG web pages reflect the policy that new business
  for the working group is posted in a timely manner.  <DK> 

4- Last meeting minutes review

Voted to approve the minutes of the meeting of January 16, 1996.

5- Future Meetings

Apr 30 - May 1, 1996:   IBM,                    Austin, TX
        Host:           John Kingman            <kingman@austin.ibm.com>

June 25 - 26, 1996:     Firmworks,              Mountain View, CA
        Host:           Mitch Bradley           <wmb@firmworks.com>
        Directions to Firmworks available on http://www.firmworks.com

August 13 - 14, 1996:   Apple Computer,         Cupertino, CA
        Host:           Ron Hochsprung          <ron@apple.com>

6- Standard Progress Report

--- Closed ---

    1275-1994: OF Core (Official IEEE Standard)
    1275.1-1994: SPARC ISA  (Official IEEE Standard)
    1275.2-1994: SBus Bus Binding (Official IEEE Standard)

    p1275.4/d14 FB+ (Passed sponsor ballot, in editing, editor: Paula Kelty)
	Owner: <none>

    p1275.5  68K (PAR Withdrawn by the working group)

--- Open -----

    p1275.3: VME (Sponsor ballot failed due to lack of response)
	David Paktor is trying to revise the PAR to limit
	the scope to VME-32, and exclude the VME-64 issues.
	Current State: Awaiting NESCOM review and approval.
	Owner: David Paktor

    p1275.6/d5: 64 Bit Extensions (Negative Ballots w.r.t. 32 bit compatibility)
	Owner: David Kahn

    p1275.a  Errata to 1275-1994 (Core Errata), Sponsor Ballot, waiting
	formation of ballot body, at the IEEE and with Martin Walsh.
	Owner: David Kahn

7- Action Items Review

The following AIs were deemed to be closed: 3, 8, 10, 13, and 16.  See
Section 11 for a summary of the currently open Action Items.

8- Other Pending/Tabled items

#295 -- rejected by nearly unanimous vote; looking forward to seeing the
        replacement proposal.

9- Proposal Status:

#295 -- <Device Support Extensions> closed; rejected (see above)
#306 -- <PowerPC processor> closed; remanded to subcommittee
#307 -- <PowerPC processor> closed; withdrawn
#308 -- <PCI> accepted as amended (see below)
#309 -- <OFWG Minutes> closed; administratively
#310 -- <PCI> tabled; (see below)
#311 -- <PCI> accepted (see below)
#312 -- <PowerPC processor> closed; remanded to subcommittee
#313 -- <PowerPC processor> closed; remanded to subcommittee
#314 -- <PCI> accepted (see below)
#315 -- <PowerPC processor> closed; withdrawn, superceded by #317
#316 -- <subcommittee minutes> closed; withdrawn; superceded by #325
#317 -- <PowerPC processor> closed; remanded to subcommittee
#318 -- <OFWG Agenda> closed; withdrawn, superceded by #319
#319 -- <OFWG Agenda> closed; administratively 
#320 -- <ISA> open; (see below)
#321 -- <Interrupts Rec. Prac.> open; (see below)
#322 -- <Forth/FCode Rec. Prac.> open; (see below) 
#323 -- <PCI> open; to be continued (see below)
#324 -- <Generic Names Rec. Prac.> open; (see below)
#325 -- <subcommittee minutes> closed; remanded to subcommittee

10- Document Reviews (including associated proposals, if any)

PCI Binding
    Revision 1.65 Unapproved Draft 
    #308 -- approved with amendments -- (10-0-0) 
            Add wording to read back the cache-line-size register,
            if the value is zero, don't create the property.
    #310 -- tabled -- editor has action item to suggest new wording (AI21)
    #311 -- accepted as written; editor's discretion on wording update 
            (10-0-0)
    #314 -- accepted as written; editor's discretion on wording update 
            (10-0-0)
    #323 -- discussion to be continued; proposal split into two parts:
            a) Update PCI Binding 4.2.1 for non-relocatable PCI devices:

               Additional requirement on the close method of child devices: 
                  close(    )
               Disable fixed-address response by closing Memory space and I/O 
               space and BusMaster enable bits in the command register.  
               Use similar wording on p17, line 12.  

            b) Create recommended practice for output devices (e.g. VGA) 

Recommended Practice: Interrupt Mapping - new, 
    Revision 0.5
    #321 -- discussion to be continued; Ron to update to handle interrupt 
           "forests" 

ISA/EISA/ISA-PnP binding; 
    Revision 0.1 DRAFT
    #320 -- to be continued; Bob to work with Jordan on PnP naming issues

Recommended Practice: Generic Names - new, 
    Version 1.0 DRAFT
    #251 and 
    #324 -- to be continued; names assigned to PCI Class codes; added to 
            list on p.4 as appropriate.  Add "authorization" clause. 
            Editor to generate 1.1 "unapproved draft." 

Recommended Practice: Forth/FCode - new,
    Revision 1.0 UNAPPROVED DRAFT
    #322 -- to be continued; some discussion regarding line-end definition

11- Action Items Summary

Old AIs:
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  | No.|Who         |Description                                           |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  1 |Ron H.      |Check on TI licensing/royalty on NuBus that may       |
  |    |            |provide a path to solve the patent issue.             |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  2 |Editors of  |Update document template and contents per discussion. |
  |    |Recommended |                                                      |
  |    |Practice    |                                                      |
  |    |documents   |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  4 |David K.    |Standard properties document.                         |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  5 |David K.    |Report on 64-bit experimental work.                   |
  |    |Mitch B.    |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  6 |Ron H.      |Work on "reg"/"assigned-addresses"/base address       |
  |    |David K.    |registers in the PCI binding.                         |
  |    |Greg        |                                                      |
  |    |Jordan B.   |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  7 |Jordan B.   |Work on names, unit-address... in ISA binding         |
  |    |Lilian W.   |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  9 |Mitch B.    |Work on tristatable bit                               |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 11 |Jordan B.   |Reorganize discussion of probing in ISA binding       |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 12 |Jordan B.   |Suggest wording for IRQ 2 vs 9                        |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 14 |Jordan B.   |Edit sound stuff                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 15 |Ron H.      |Update ranges properties and usage in PCI binding     |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 17 |Ron H.      |Prepare proposal for Code Page selection.             |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

New AIs:
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  | No.|Who         |Description                                           |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 18 |David K.    |Clarify subcommittee feedback loop                    |
  |    |John K.     |                                                      |
  |    |Bob C.      |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 19 |David K.    |Update status of remanded items & documents           |
  |    |John K.     |                                                      |
  |    |Bob C.      |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 20 |Ron H.      |Update Proposal #308 as amended                       |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 21 |Ron H.      |Update Proposal #310 with new wording (talk to Tom    |
  |    |            |Caron)                                                |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 22 |Ron H.      |Update PCI Binding 4.2.1 for non-relocatable PCI      |
  |    |            |devices (see #323a above)                             |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 23 |Greg H.     |recommended practice for output devices (e.g. VGA)    |
  |    |            |talk to Mitch Bradley (see #323b above)               |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 24 |Ron H.      |talk to Mitch Bradley to clarify line-end for #322    |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------


-- 

[ P1275 Item #329 -- Received: Fri Mar 22 14:19:41 PST 1996 ]

