From: kingman@austin.ibm.com (Kingman)
Subject: Item #393: Administrative: OFWG Minutes for October Meeting
Date: Mon, 14 Oct 1996 10:48:09 -0500 (CDT)

P1275 Open Firmware Working Group Proposal -- Proposal #393 Ver <Auth-Vers#>

Title:          Minutes of October Open Firmware Working Group meeting

Author:         John Kingman

Date:           October 14, 1996

Attached please find the minutes of our last meeting held October 8, and
October 9, 1996 at Motorola, Tempe, AZ.  Thanks to Chris Maloney for 
making the arrangements.

Also please note that: 

(1) our next meeting is planned for the Marriott in Salt Lake City, UT, 
    on January 13-14, 1997 and 
(2) check the "Action Item Summary" at the end of this note for your 
    action items.

Regards,

John Kingman, Secretary Open Firmware Working Group
kingman@austin.ibm.com

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

1- Attendees
   =========

David M. Kahn     Sun Microsystems   415-336-2784 dmk@Eng.Sun.Com
                  Vice Chairman Open Firmware Working Group
John Kingman      IBM RS/6000 Div.   512-838-1546 kingman@austin.ibm.com
                  Secretary OFWG
Chris Maloney     Motorola           602-437-6716 CMaloney@phx.mcd.mot.com
Chris Bellman     Adaptec	     408-945-8600 cbellman@corp.adaptec.com
Greg Hill         Firmworks          415-917-6985 GREGH@FIRMWORKS.COM
Ron Hochsprung    Apple/Sys. Arch.   408-974-2661 ron@apple.com
Bob Coffin        IBM                512-838-8240 coffin@vnet.ibm.com
Bruce Rosenkrantz Motorola           602-438-3745 brosen@phx.mcd.mot.com

First time attendees:
Randy Leberknight Motorola           602-438-3275 RandyL@phx.mcd.mot.com

Part time attendees:
Mitch Bradley     FirmWorks          415-961-1302 wmb@firmworks.com
                  Chairman Open Firmware Working Group 

2- Review Agenda
   =============

   Quorum declared present (7)

   Proposed agenda (#392) was reviewed and approved unanimously with right 
   of revision to the Vice Chair

3- Administrative/Procedural items
   ===============================

   We need a volunteer to take over as OFWG Secretary.

4- Last meeting minutes review
   ===========================

   Approved the minutes of the meeting of August 13, 1996 (#387) 

5- Future Meetings
   ===============

   January 13 - 14, 1997	Marriott Hotel		Salt Lake City, UT
	Host/contact:		David Kahn              dmk@Eng.Sun.Com

	Note that this will be a Monday/Tuesday session.  David will be 
        sending out more details via the OFWG e-mailing list.

   March 4 - 5, 1997		IBM			Austin, TX
	Host/contact:		John Dickol		dickol@vnet.ibm.com

   May 20 - 21, 1997		Firmworks		Mountain View, CA
	Host/contact:		Greg Hill		gregh@firmworks.com

6- Standard Progress Report
   ========================

   Errata failed for lack of sufficient response.  
   
   Please check the IEEE web site (www.ieee.org) for membership 
   information so we can have a meaningful vote.  (Computer Society 
   membership is sufficient to make your ballot count.)

7- Action Items Review
   ===================

     -2- open
     -4- open
    -11- open
    -12- open
    -26- closed
    -27- open
    -28- open
    -29- open
    -30- open
    -S2- Open
    -S4- Open
    -S5- Open
    -S8- Open
   -S14- Closed
   -S15- Open
   -S16- Open
   -S17- Closed

8- Other Pending/Tabled items
   ==========================

   #250  (Email balloting procedure) 
	-- open - skip
   #322  (Forth source and FCode image support) 
	-- withdrawn by author
   #350  (sound)
        -- closed accepted as amended from prior meeting and incorporated
           in the DSE
   #370  (64-bit) 
        -- passed with amendments
   #375  (SCSI-3 Parallel)
        -- open, moved to have author to produce draft document

9- New Proposal Status summary
   ===========================

   #387  (minutes) 
	-- closed, accepted
   #388  (email balloting) 
	-- withdrawn by author
   #389  (Stack diagram error) 
	-- closed, approved unanimously
   #390  (Power PC) 
	-- closed, approved unanimously with amendment to remove the 
           memory reservation and to add a note that there used to be one.
   #391  (DSE) 
	-- passed as amended
   #392  (Agenda) 
	-- closed, accepted

10- Document Reviews (including associated proposals, if any)
    ================

Generic Names Version 1.3
-------------------------

   Various places -- check for smart quotes vs plain.
   p. 3 -- ln 48, 51 wrong type font
   p. 4 -- ln 22, delete "under question"
           ln 25, space around comma
   p. 5 -- "fiber" should be "fibre"

	Moved to have editor produce an approved version.  (unanimous)

Device Support Extensions Version Version 0.8
---------------------------------------------

   p. 9 -- ln 39, add "physical" before size
           ln 54/55 delete and add to prev sentence that the size is
           the amount available to the client.
   p. 11 -- ln 33, change note to a normative statement on pg 10
            (tables) change "means" to "meaning" (or similar)
            ln 30/31 caps for rts, etc.
            ln 48 (table) [keep on one page]
   p. 12 -- ln 24, 27 bold "network" (also other places and other quoted
            strings and also check for smart quotes)
            ln 30 change "TFTP" to "obp-tftp"
   p. 13 -- ln 44 type font for "half" or "full"
   p. 14 -- space after E.6.3
   p. 16 -- add "net"
   p. 16 -- remove Section 14.

#391 amended as follows: (replace text in proposal)
   p. 13 -- add after line 49
	 "The aguments shown above must come first.  The commas are
  	 only present if there is a following parameter."

	Move to produce 1.0 approved -- propose wording for network device 
        on reflector first.  (unanimous)

64 Bit Extensions, p1275.6/D5
-----------------------------
     #370 (FCode32 Compatibility)
     - Add a normative statement.
     - add mask stuff ... 

	Passed with amendments unanimously

SCSI-3 Parallel Interface Binding
----------------------------------
    #375 (proposal of Draft 1)
    - add in Section 3.1.1, "name" should be "scsi" if using generic names.

	Moved to have author to produce draft document (unanimous)

Interrupt Mapping Recommended Practice Version 0.9
--------------------------------------------------
	
    Discussion of use of device number/function number, etc.    

ISA/EISA/ISA-PnP Binding Version 0.4
------------------------------------

   p. var -- change "prop-name" to "property name"
   p. 12 -- ln 12, change ":" to ","
         -- ln 19, change "would be" to "are" (also p.16 ln16)
   p. 14 -- ln 19-46 change "should" to "shall"
   p. 16 -- ln 12-16 what is "ID number"?
            ln 25, delete last sentence

	Suggested that the editor make another pass and come back with 0.5

CHRP System Binding
-------------------
		
   p. 27 -- ln 15, "unit-len" is the length of the unit string (see page
            181 of core for words).  Check with Ron
   p. var -- smart quotes abound


11- Action Items Summary
    ====================

    The following AIs are still open: 

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  | No.|Who         |Description                                           |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  2 |Editors of  |Update document template and contents per discussion. |
  |    |Recommended |                                                      |
  |    |Practice    |                                                      |
  |    |documents   |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  |  4 |Greg H.     |Standard properties document.                         |
  |    |John H.     |                                                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 11 |Jordan B.   |Reorganize discussion of probing in ISA binding       |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 12 |Jordan B.   |Suggest wording for IRQ 2 vs 9                        |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 27 |Jordan B.   |Propose replacement for #323b (withdrawn)             |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 28 |Ron H.      |Make a proposal for PCI hot plug                      |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 29 |Mitch B.    |Do we need to clarify MASK in 64-bit mode for         |
  |    |David K.    |(mem-test-suite)?                                     |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | 30 |Jordan B.   |Make a proposal for a registry for lists of supported |
  |    |            |things (e.g., keyboards, network types, etc.)         |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S2 |Ron H.      | Update and create v1.1 Forth and FCode Rec Practice  |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S4 |Bob C.      | Make "shared-bus-master" proposal                    |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S5 |Ron H.      | Make "chording" (keyboard) proposal                  |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S8 |Mitch B.    | Propose that debug facilities not be supported       |
  |    |            | in real-mode.                                        |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S14|Jordan B.   | Create a picture to explain sound device terminology.|
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S15|Greg H.     | Provide material for TFTP section 9 describing what  | 
  |    |            | is read and written                                  |
  |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
  | S16|Bob C.      | Migrate PReP source to playground                    |
  |    |Jordan B.   |                                                      |
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------


++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

'Til we meet again...

-- 
Rgds,
    _       _            / John A. Kingman 
   | | ___ | |_  _ _    / IBM RS/6000 Division 
  _| |/ . \| . || ' |  / Kingman@austin.ibm.com
  \__/\___/|_|_||_|_| / or Kingman@cactus.org

[ P1275 Item #393 -- Received: Mon Oct 14 08:47:17 PDT 1996 ]

