From: rtcoffin@austin.ibm.com (Coffin)
Subject: Item #406: Minutes for OFWG January 1997 Meeting
Date: Wed, 22 Jan 97 09:44:55 -0600

P1275 Openboot Working Group Proposal -- Proposal #:406 Ver 1

Title:          Minutes of January Open Firmware Working Group Meeting

Author:         Bob Coffin

Date:           January 13, 1997

Attached please find the minutes of our last meeting held January 13, 1997 at
Salt Lake City, UT.  Thanks to David Kahn/Sun Microsystems for making the
arrangements and providing the 'goodies'and/or snacks for the meeting.

Also please note that:

(1) Our next meeting will be at the IBM in Austin, TX, on April 15, 1997 and

(2) Check the "Action Item Summary" at the end of this note for your action
    items.

Regards,

Bob Coffin, Secretary, Open Firmware Working Group
rtcoffin@austin.ibm.com

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

 1- Attendees (OFWG)
   =================

Mitch Bradley          Firmworks   415-917-6984 wmb@firmworks.com
Bob Coffin (Secretary) IBM         512-838-8240 rtcoffin@austin.ibm.com
Ron Hochsprung         Apple/      408-974-2661 ron@apple.com
                       System Arch
Tracy Hullock          Motorola    512-891-6905 Tracy_Hullock@risc.sps.mot.com
                       RISC SW
David Kahn             Sun         415-786-6203 dmk@eng.sun.com
Michael Milendorf      Sun         508-442-0803 michael.milendorf@east.sun.com
Bruce Rosenkrantz      Motorola    602-438-3745 brosen@phx.mcd.mot.com

First time attendees:

Patrick Kandlbinder    Firmworks   415-917-6989 patrick@firmworks.cpm
Brian Strelioff        Motorola    847-435-9813 strlioff@lig.mot.com

Part time attendees:

none

 2- Review Agenda (OFWG)
   =====================

   Quorum declared present (6 voting members of 9 members present)

   Proposed agenda (#401) was reviewed and approved with right of revision to
   the Vice Chair

        Revised by:
        - Action Item S14 was removed (closed at last meeting)
        - Action Item 29 was removed (closed by Proposal #370)
        - Standard Progress Report Section; Status on experimental
          compatibility work was closed by Proposal #370 and 32-bit mask.

 3- Administrative/Procedural items
   ================================

   The OFWG decided to have future meetings on a quarterly basis and to plan
   on potentially having one day meetings.  The decision to have a one or two
   day meeting will occurr about a week in advance of the meeting and will
   depend on the amount of activities scheduled with regards to document
   reviews, new proposals and in general, Open Firmware business.

 4- Last meeting minutes review
   ============================

   Approved the minutes unanimously of the October 14, 1996 (#393) Meeting

 5- Future Meetings
   ================

   April 15 - 16, 1997          IBM         Austin, TX
        Host/contact:           Bob Coffin  (rtcoffin@austin.ibm.com)
                                            (512-838-8240)

   July 15 - 16, 1997           Firmworks   Mountain View, CA
        Host/contact:           Greg Hill   (gregh@firmworks.com)
                                            (415-917-6985)


 6- Standard Progress Report
   =========================

   David Kahn stated that the OFWG was prepared to drop IEEE approval/publish
   requests and to utilize the OFWG forum for publicly making information
   available; placing documents on 'playground.sun' and other mirroring server
   machines.  A brief IEEE Document status follows:

   IEEE Document Activities - Status:

   --- Closed Activities --

   1275-1994:      OF Core (Official IEEE Standard)

   1275.1-1994:    SPARC ISA  (Official IEEE Standard)

   1275.2-1994:    SBus Bus Binding (Official IEEE Standard)

   1275.4-1996:    FutureBus+ (Official IEEE Standard)

   --- Open Activities  ---

   p1275.3:     Dropped (VME) at the Open Firmware Working Group (OFWG)
                request (PAR withdrawn).  Any further work on this supplement
                will have to be provided by a champion. The OFWG has asked
                David Paktor (VME Champion) to provide an update by the next
                meeting.
                OWNER: David Paktor

   p1275.5      Dropped (68K Processor) at the OFWG request (PAR withdrawn).
                No work is being done on this activity until a person (68k
                champion) steps forth to do so.

   p1275.6/d5:  64 Bit Extensions - Plan is to drop requests for publishing
                as an IEEE document, but to continue as OFWG Document
                published on the web.
                OWNER: David Kahn

 7- Action Items Review
   ====================

    -2- Open
    -4- Open
   -11- Open
   -12- Open
   -27- Open
   -28- Open
   -29- Closed
   -30- Open

   -S2- Open
   -S4- Open
   -S5- Open
   -S8- Open
  -S15- Closed
  -S16- Open

 8- Other Pending/Tabled items
   ===========================

   #250 (Email balloting procedure)
         -- open - skip

 9- New Proposal Status summary
   ============================

   #393 (Minutes) accepted as ammended - closed

   #394 (Typo - ISA binding) - withdrawn
         -- withdrawn by author; corrected in earlier binding version.

   #395 (Typo - PCI binding) - closed
         -- approved; include correction in PCI binding V2.1

   #396 (Correct max-transfer example - SCSI (Appendix e)) - closed
         -- approved; publish as core errata with html addendum as additional
            item on the web.

   #397 (Auto String - DSE Network Device) - closed
         -- accepted as ammended; change wording for the "chosen-network-type"
            property to reflect what result value for 'speed' and 'duplex mode'
            was selected or negotiated for the adapter ('auto' string would not
            be in the result value of "chosen-network-type" property).  Tech-
            nical editor to provide wording to include in new Device Support
            Extension-RP Version.

   #398 (Ping Command - TFTP Booting Extensions-RP) - closed
         -- accepted as ammended; put brackets around 'client-ip' for ping
            command definition and include [bootp] in the device arguments
            definition.  Technical editor to include in new version of
            TFTP Booting Extension-RP.

   #399 (Map In/Out Clarification - PCI binding) - closed
         -- rejected; covered in definition of 'map-in', PCI binding (author
            agreed that item was already covered in PCI binding)

   #400 (Typo - PCI binding) - closed
         -- accepted; technical editor to include in new PCI binding

   #401 (Agenda)
         -- accepted as ammended; removed AI 29, S14, and 64-bit Extension
            Supplement experimental compatibility work status items

   #402 (Interrupt Mapping; #address_cells - Interrupt Mapping-RP) - closed
         -- accepted as ammended; Technical editor to update code that allows
            "#address-cells" to have a value of zero to indicate not to use
            unit-address for a case where a device can directly point to an
            interrupt controller via the "interrupt-parent" property and to
            also update an example.

   #403 (Opened by mistake; not really a proposal - withdrawn)

   #405 (Add vendor-id to "compatible" property - PCI binding) - closed
        [proposal 'dmk-01' at meeting]
         -- accepted; Technical editor to include in new PCI binding Version.


10- Document Reviews (including associated proposals, if any)
    ================

Generic Names, Version 1.4
---------------------------
Reviewed document; no proposed changes.


Device Support Extensions-RP, Version 1.0
------------------------------------------
Reviewed document; technical editor directed to remove part of sentence under
Section 13., p18, l47, 'The "disk-label" standard support package and' and
to correct noted document format errata.  Technical editor directed to make
changes and produce a new DSE-RP, Version 1.1, Approved Version.

Technical editor directed to include Proposal #397, ammended, as described in
Section 9- New Proposal Status summary and produce a new DSE-RP, Version 1.2,
Unapproved Version.


SCSI-3 Parallel Interface (SPI) binding, Version 1.0
-----------------------------------------------------
Directed technical editor to do a new version of SPI binding to include text
in Section 3 that defines what SPI is (boiler plate) around p3, l29 about
SPI is primarily protocols for mass storage devices; i.g., disks, tapes.


11- Action Items Summary
    ====================

    Old AI's:
    -------
    The following AI's are still open: 2,4,11,12,27,28,30 &
    S2,S4,S5,S8,S16

    New  AI's:
    --------
    AI 31:
    Identified problem in SCSI-3 Parallel Interface binding step 7, sense key
    on p6, l20, with regards to media not being present (Also present in core
    document, Appendix E).  Mitch Bradley to do proposal to correct problem.

   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | No.|Who         |Description                                           |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   |  2 |Editors of  |Update document template and contents per discussion. |
   |    |Recommended |                                                      |
   |    |Practice    |                                                      |
   |    |documents   |                                                      |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   |  4 |Greg H.     |Standard properties document.                         |
   |    |John H.     |                                                      |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | 11 |Jordan B.   |Reorganize discussion of probing in ISA binding       |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | 12 |Jordan B.   |Suggest wording for IRQ 2 vs 9 ISA binding            |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | 27 |Jordan B.   |Propose replacement for #323b (withdrawn)             |
   |--- |------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | 28 |Ron H.      |Make a proposal for PCI 'hot plug'.                   |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | 30 |Jordan B.   |Make a proposal for a registry for lists of supported |
   |    |            |things (e.g.. kybds, network types, etc.)             |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | 31 |Mitch B.    |Make a proposal to correct SPI binding sense key      |
   |    |            |(media not being present)                             |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|

 Subcommittee Action Items:
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S2 |Ron H.      | Update and create v1.1 Forth and FCode Rec Practice  |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S4 |Bob C.      | Make "shared-bus-master" proposal                    |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S5 |Ron H.      | Make "chording" proposal                             |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S8 |Mitch B.    | Propose that debug facilities not be supported       |
   |    |            | in real-mode.                                        |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S14|Jordan B.   | Create a picture to explain sound device terminology.|
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S16|Bob C.      | Migrate PReP source to playground                    |
   |    |Jordan B.   |                                                      |
   |-----------------|------------------------------------------------------|


+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++



[ P1275 Item #406 -- Received: Wed Jan 22 07:46:01 PST 1997 ]

