From: kingman@austin.ibm.com (John Kingman)
Subject: Item #332: OFWG Minutes 03/06/96 (second day)
Date: Thu, 4 Apr 1996 17:59:14 -0600 (CST)

P1275 Open Firmware Working Group Proposal -- Proposal #332 Ver <Auth-Vers#>

Title:         Minutes of Open Firmware Subcommittee meeting 3/6/96.

Author:        John A. Kingman

Date:          April 4, 1996

Ed/Tech:       Editorial

Synopsis:      Minutes for 3/6/96 meeting held at Apple-Cupertino.

Proposal:

Hello,
Here are the minutes for the second day of the 1275 OFWG meetings held at
Apple-Cupertino on 3/6/96.

Attendees:
Mitch Bradley  FirmWorks/President  415-961-1302 wmb@firmworks.com
               Chairman Open Firmware Working Group
John Kingman   IBM Risc System/6000 512-838-1546 kingman@austin.ibm.com
               Secretary Open Firmware Working Group
Chris M Bellman Adaptec, Inc.       408-945-8600 cbellman@corp.adpatec.com
Ron Hochsprung Apple/Sys. Arch.     408-974-2661 ron@apple.com
Tuyen Tran     BusLogic	            408-492-9090 <none supplied>
Satoru Mamiya  FirePower Systems    415-462-3009 mamiya@Firepower.com
Bob Coffin     IBM                  512-838-8240 coffin@vnet.ibm.com
John Dickol    IBM                  512-838-6005 dickol@vnet.ibm.com 
John Hall      Sun Microsystems     415-786-6927 John.Hall@eng.sun.com
Matt Hill      Sun Microsystems     415-786-5321 Matt.Hill@eng.sun.com

- Review Agenda
  Proposed agenda was reviewed and approved unanimously.

- Review Minutes (#325)
  - Add Bob Coffin to attendee's list
  - Approved unanimously, with amendment 7-0-0

- Open AI Review:
  1 Ron H. to create proposal on recognizing Forth and FCode image formats.  
    Status: Done (#322).
  2 Parallel Port Read Method. (Mike S) 
    Status: clarify to say 1284 standard mode
  7 Ron H. to prepare proposal for Code Page selection.  
    Status:  No progress

- Agenda:
1) Review Recommended Practices
    a) Generic Names  - new proposal #324
        - p8 l50 add "representing the subsystem vendor and
          device ids, if present, otherwise" at "representing"

          Make updates and create new version. (AI #1)

    b) Forth source and FCode image support - new proposal #322
        - discussion clarifying definition of line end and a
          change to p3 l22 change "is then assumed to" to "must"

          Make updates and create v1.1 (AI #2)

2) Review PowerPC Processor Binding Revision 1.9 DRAFT 
	- p7, l50: translation is not disabled.  Change defintion
	  to what Section 4.2.1 says (consistent).  Strike words "with 
	  translation disabled".
	- p11, l22-23: Add wording: The Client also has to guarantee 
	  that other processors do not generate translation exception
	  interrupts for the duration of the call.  {Editor's discretion
	  for wording}
	- p11, l45-46: Change wording: Hence this binding defines 
	  'callback' services that the cliet provides for use by OF.
	- p14, l43: "cpu-state" - This is not 'static', or does it indicate 
	  the state at which OF was when it was started. Propose delete 
	  property because information is available elsewhere.  Discuss
	  in CHRP meeting.  Move to be stricken from document; proposal	
	  from Mitch Bradley. Voted to remove: 8-0-0.     
	- p17, change "device-type" to "device_type"; do a global check and
	  fix all.

        - Proposal #312 -- Refers to material which was removed from the
          PPC processor binding, to be put in the platform bindings.  

          Mitch Bradley: moved to freeze PReP, add to CHRP only
          For PReP; voted to reject 8-0-0.    

          RESOLUTION:  Freeze PReP for additional requirements.  Tie 
          PReP binding to PPC binding 1.8; voted to accept 8-0-0.
 
          Add to CHRP binding.

	- Proposal #313 -- rejected 8-0-0.
	  PowerPC Architecture will clarify that only 3 pages will be 
          reserved for implementation specific area.  
  
	  Clarification to PPC binding: p10, l20; Add following 'used for 
          interrupt vectors': 'and implementation specific areas'.
 
	- Proposal #317 -- Proposed changes:
	  p10, l3:
	     DISCUSSION:

	      real-mode:	True		False
	      virt-base:	don't care	meaningful(-1 or explicit)
	      real-base:	meaningful	dc(-1 or explicit) Is this
						independent of virt-base?

	  Replace entire paragraph:  
             "If the client program has specific requirements for physical 
              memory or address space usage, it may establish requirements 
              for OF's physical and/or virtual address space usage by means 
              of its program header.  When OF loads the client program, it 
              inspects the program header, and if its current usage of 
              physical memory or virtual address space conflicts with that 
              specified in the program header, OF shall set the real-base, 
              real-size, virt-base, and virt-size to the configuration 
              variables as specified in the header and restart itself.  
              real-base, virt-base, real-size and virt-size may be specified 
              as -1, in which case the firmware is permitted to choose 
              appropriate values for the variables specified as -1."
	  p10, l7: Replace paragraph beginning at l7; 
	     "If the values of the real-size and/or virt-size config vars do 
              not provide sufficient memory and/or virtual address space for  
              the firmware's own use, then the firmware shall not attempt to
	      load a client program and the condition should be reported to 
              the user.  The possibility of not being able to comply with 
	      limitiations on firmware's size should be tested as the 
              firmware is coming up in order to handle the possibility that 
              a user established an unworkable limitation on the size."
		
          Add second sentence of proposal.
	  p11, l24-27: Client programs are not required to assume 
          responsibility for physical memory management. Put at beginning 
          of paragraph. State in both pos and neg context.
	  p18: split Table 1 into sections: real-mode and virt-mode; 
          change "preserved by client interface" to "client interface shall 
          preserve"; add definition for preserved - same value when returing; 
          indicate that the msr, segment registers & sprg registers shall 
          not be modified by the client interface in virtual mode; indicate 
          that the msr, segment registers & sprg registers shall be preserved 
          by the client interface in real mode; remove '%' signs in this 
          section.
	  p19, Table 2: Change "Others" to "Other user mode registers".
          p19, l8-15: replace the 3rd and 4th sentences with the definition 
          of load-base.  Add the proposed sentence to the end of the paragraph.
	  p20, l43;  call BM; consistent with each other is OK.
	  p22, l30; Segment Register's sentence, don't add.
	  p22, l52-54: Move lines to behind 12.
	      
	  Move to make changes as amended above with p20 l43 clarifed 
          tomorrow and update binding to Revision 1.10 DRAFT.
          Passed unanimously (6-0-0)  (AI #3)

          <Ed. Note> clarifications for p20:
            at Ln 40: After the first sentence add: 
               "The I cache shall be consistent with the D cache for all 
               memory areas occupied by the client program."
            after Ln 43: Add: 
               "All processors in a SMP system shall have the same 
               consistent view of all memory areas (for data references).  
               No more than one processor shall have a modified copy of 
               the same data area in its cache when the client program
               is called.
                 Note: If firmware makes cachable M=0 data references from 
                   different processors on a SMP system, it may have to
                   perform additional cache management to meet this 
                   requirement."

3) Device Support Extensions 
        - p.11, l.44, Clarify that size shouldn't include any area of NVRAM 
          that is not available.  Size should not include any areas set aside 
          for manufacturer specific purposes other than those areas whose 
          format is defined by the platform architecture specifcations.
	- p.12, l.44-49 ("differential") Is 'shall' necessary? If present, 
          the node does it, if not, you don't know.  multi-path issue: make 
          a script for multiple hosts, multi-headed case make one controller 
          "it" and point the other(s) at it via phandle ...  presence of this 
          property ... e.g. several might be connected to the same scsi ... 
          "shared-bus-master": value is phandle (encode-int) of the package 
          that is the canonical master of the shared bus. 
           "For a given bus type there is an algorithm for determining which 
          device among a set of devices sharing control of that bus is the 
          'distinguished' one.  This distinguished device is known as the 
          'canonical master'.  What's special for the distinguished master 
          is we want to initiate an ID at the right numerical boundary."
           A proposal is to be submitted. (AI #4)
        - What "chording" is to be supported? 
          A proposal is to be submitted. (AI #5)
        - "sound" vs "audio" - change Generic Names to "sound" based on the
          fact that DSE uses sound.
        - "SICSI" should be "SCSI"

        New DSE draft to be produced with these amendments.  (AI #6)

4) ISA Binding 
	- p8, l30 <correct spelling> "physical"
	- p8, l10 <correct spelling> "since"
	- p10, l33, change "adaptor" to "adapter" <global chg>
	- p11, l39, change "id" to "ID" <global chg>
	- p11, l49-50, fix child = ISA bridge, parent = PCI Bus
	- p12, l18, delete "24-bit address" and add "Since ISA devices are 
          restricted to 24-bit addressing, the memory must be within an area 
          which can be reached by a 24-bit address on the ISA Bus.
	- p13, l18-23, delete serial and move it to unit address of reg
          property.  Make the name generic, if it is appropriate.
          "isa" should be in plain font.  More detail on aaa,bbb (encoded as
          whatever) aaa = upper case ascii characters (as decoded from 
          compressed ascii, etc.) trailing blanks eliminated.  bbb = lower 
	  case ascii hex, leading zeros eliminated <see PCI>.  
	  <Move this to "compatible" and say here that "name" will be the 
	  same as "compatible" unless there is an appropriate generic name.>
	- p13, l25-37, <high order bit distinguishes between legacy and
          PnP version of phys-addr, see Mitch's picture> 2 cases.
	  Text repr: "pnp,aaa,bbbb,ssss..."
	  <add to 2.2, phys addr notation and update reg to show that legacy
	  use case 0 and pnp use case 1.>
	- p13, l38+ (interrupts) indicate that "type" is the type being used
	  . use "shall"
	  . fix "one liner"
	  . array = an arbitrary number of irq, type pairs
	- p14, l7-15 (compatible) <move stuff from "name" here> start with
	  pnpvvv,dddd (no serial no) followed by logical device id, followed
	  by any number of compatible ids.
	- p14, l45-52 (connectors) change to slot-names <clone PCI description>
	- p14, l53 delete interrupt-choices 
	- p15, l18 delete dma-choices
        
	Moved to produce 0.2 Draft with these amendments. 6-0-0  (AI #7)

New Action Items

1 - Update Generic Names Recommended Practice (Bob Coffin)
2 - Update and create v1.1 Forth and FCode Recommended Practice 
    (Ron Hochsprung)
3 - Produce PPC Processor v1.10 draft (John Kingman)
4 - Make "shared-bus-master" proposal (Bob Coffin)
5 - Make "chording" proposal (Ron Hochsprung)
6 - Produce new Device Support Extensions draft (Bob Coffin)
7 - Produce 0.2 Draft of ISA binding (Bob Coffin)
8 - Propose that debug facilities not be supported in real-mode. 
    (Mitch Bradley)


[ P1275 Item #332 -- Received: Thu Apr  4 15:57:59 PST 1996 ]

