From: rtcoffin@austin.ibm.com (Coffin)
Subject: Item #401: Agenda for OFWG Salt Lake City Meeting - January
Date: Mon, 06 Jan 97 14:35:25 -0600

P1275 Openboot Working Group Proposal -- Proposal #:401 Ver 1.0


Title:          OFWG Agenda for January Meeting

Author:         Bob Coffin

To:             Open Firmware Working Group Members,

Attached is the agenda for the Open Firmware Working Group meeting to be
held at Salt Lake City Marriott, Utah, in the Snowbird Room (second floor) on
Monday January 13, 1997 and Tuesday January 14, 1997.  Directions and hotel
information are available at:

         http://playground.sun.com/pub/1275

Please check below for any Action Items assigned to you.  For those with
Action Items who cannot come to the meeting, please send me the status of
your item(s) by e-mail by 14:00PM Central Time Thursday, January 9, 1997.

Thanks.

Bob Coffin, Secretary Open Firmware Working Group
rtcoffin@austin.ibm.com

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Times are meeting location local time:

Monday January 13, 1997

     9:00AM     - Meet at Marriott Snowbird Room (Second Floor)
                     Light breakfast to be provided by Sun.
     9:15AM   1 - Introduction
              2 - Review Agenda
              3 - Administrative/Procedural Items
              4 - Review and approve minutes from the last meeting
              5 - Future Meetings
              6 - Standard Progress Report
                     P1275.3 (VME - IEEE 1014 bus)
                     P1275.6: 64-bit Extension Supplement for Open Firmware
                        - Status on experimental compatibility work from
                          David Kahn and/or Mitch Bradley 
                     P1275.a Errata to 1275-1994 (Core Errata)
              7 - Action Items Review (see attached note)
              8 - Other Pending/Tabled items
     12:00M      - Break for LUNCH
     1:00PM   9 - Proposal Status Review
             10 - Document Reviews (including associated proposals, if any)
                    PCI Bus Binding
                    TFTP Recommended Practice
                    ISA/EISA/ISA-PnP Binding
                    Interrupt Mapping Recommended Practice
                    SCSI-3 Parallel Interface (SPI) Binding
     5:00PM     - Break for the day

Tuesday January 14, 1997

     9:00AM     - Meet at Marriott Snowbird Room (Second Floor)
                     Light breakfast to be provided by Sun.
     9:15AM  10 - Document Reviews (cont'd)
                    Power PC Processor Binding
                    Device Support Extentions Recommended Practice
                    Generic Names Recommended Practice
                    CHRP System Binding
                    CHRP Device Bindings
    12:00PM     - Break for lunch
     1:00PM  10 - Document Reviews (cont'd)
                    Others?
     1:30PM     - Summarize/Assign action items and Wrap-up
     2:00PM     - Adjourn


NOTES:
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Action Items:

   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | No.|Who         |Description                                           |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   |  2 |Editors of  |Update document template and contents per discussion. |
   |    |Recommended |                                                      |
   |    |Practice    |                                                      |
   |    |documents   |                                                      |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   |  4 |Greg H.     |Standard properties document.                         |
   |    |John H.     |                                                      |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | 11 |Jordan B.   |Reorganize discussion of probing in ISA binding       |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | 12 |Jordan B.   |Suggest wording for IRQ 2 vs 9 ISA binding            |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | 27 |Jordan B.   |Propose replacement for #323b (withdrawn)             |
   |--- |------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | 28 |Ron H.      |Make a proposal for PCI 'hot plug'.                   |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | 29 |Mitch B.    |Do we need to clarify MASK in 64-bit mode for (Mem-   |
   |    |David K.    |test-suite)?                                          |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | 30 |Jordan B.   |Make a proposal for a registry for lists of supported |
   |    |            |things (e.g.. kybds, network types, etc.)             |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|


 Subcommittee Action Items:
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S2 |Ron H.      | Update and create v1.1 Forth and FCode Rec Practice  |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S4 |Bob C.      | Make "shared-bus-master" proposal                    |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S5 |Ron H.      | Make "chording" proposal                             |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S8 |Mitch B.    | Propose that debug facilities not be supported       |
   |    |            | in real-mode.                                        |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S14|Jordan B.   | Create a picture to explain sound device terminology.|
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S15|Greg H.     | Provide material for TFTP Section 9 describing what  |
   |    |            | is read and written.                                 |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S16|Bob C.      | Migrate PReP source to playground                    |
   |    |Jordan B.   |                                                      |
   |-----------------|------------------------------------------------------|

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
-- 
 Regards,                 ______________________________________
                          \ R. T. Coffin, IBM - Austin, TX.     \
     /_)   /')  /_)        \ RS/6000 Hardware Architecture       \
    /__)  /_/  /__)         \ (512) 838-8240  Fax: (512) 838-6783 \
                             \  e-mail: rtcoffin@austin.ibm.com    \
================== N4LXK -30- ======================================\



[ P1275 Item #401 -- Received: Mon Jan  6 12:36:16 PST 1997 ]

