Date: Mon, 09 Jan 95 10:23:19 -0600
From: "Dr. Luan D. Nguyen" <duyluan@austin.ibm.com>
Subject: Minutes of IEEE-1275 Committee Meeting on 12/13/94

Dear IEEE 1275-1994 Committee members,
Attached please find the minutes of our December meeting.
Reminder: Our next meeting will be hosted by Mitch Bradley (Firmworks, Mountain
view, CA) on 01/24/1994.
Kip McClanahan from Motorola is in charge of sending out minutes of the
12/14/94 meeting on PowerPC and PCMCIA bindings.
Happy New Year. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Minutes of  IEEE-1275 committee meeting of 13 December 1994 held at IBM Austin, Texas.


1-Attendees

RON HOCHSPRUNG  APPLE/SYS. ARCHITECTURE (408)974-2661  RON@APPLE.COM
MITCH BRADLEY FIRMWORKS/PRESIDENT       (415)961-1302  WMB@FIRMWORKS.COM
              CHAIR-IEEE-1275-WG
DAVID M. KAHN SUN MICROSYSTEMS/         (415)336-2784  DUKE@ENG.SUN.COM
              VICE CHAIR-IEEE-1275-WG/
              FIRMWARE/OS ARCHITECTURE
LUAN NGUYEN   IBM/SYS. ARCHITECTURE/    (512)838-1292  DUYLUAN@IBM.AUSTIN.COM
              SECRETARY-IEEE-1275-WG
YONGJAE RIM   IBM/pPS/PReP 		(512)838-8508  YRIM@AUSTIN.IBM.COM
DAVID PAKTOR  HAL   			(408)379-7000  PAKTOR@HAL.COM
JOHN BEIDL    IBM RALEIGH               (919)254-2855  JBIEDL@VNET.IBM.COM
RICHARD ARNDT IBM PSP                   (512)838-8502  RLARNDT@AUSTIN.IBM.COM



2-Review Agenda

 Agenda proposed by Luan Nguyen was approved with the following ammendments:
 (1) Add review action item status after selecting future meeting dates, (2)
 Add time slot for new proposals such as Errata P1275.7, extensible client
 services package, terminal emulator ,and Interposer after reviewing PCI
 binding for Open Firmware.   


3-Future Meetings

 January 24, 1994: To be hosted by FirmWorks, Moutain View, CA
 March 07,1994: To be hosted by IBM, Austin, Texas
 April 25,1994: To be hosted by HAL Inc., Campbell, CA


4-Action Item (AI) Status Review:

A- Errata list to be published by Thomas- status: closed. Kahn has the
   assignment to keep and update this errata list from now on.

B- RID that Bradley should prepare a formal proposal for "taking 1275
   private"- status: open. Note: Bradley has cooled off on this idea.

C- Kahn to contact Gary Robinson (chair of RevCom) regarding the possibility
   of a patent covering FCode-like technology- Status: closed. Robinson was
   contacted but issue has not been resolved. New AI for Bradley, Kahn, and
   Hoffman to follow-up (directly?) with TI and to drive this to a conclusion 
  (through TI Patent Division executive contact from Hoffman?).

D- Kocaoglu and Kahn to submit formal proposal to create a package for the
   client interface, with new FCodes allowing the client interface to be
   extended (and accessed) by FCode and other client programs. Status: closed.
   This proposal is to be reviewed later today.

E- McClanahan to determine if Motorola will support PAR P1275.5.- status:
   closed. Motorola will not support this PAR.

F- Paktor to publicized the group's intention to withdraw support of PAR
   P1275.5. Status: closed. 
   Nobody cares about this PAR, AI to Kahn to ask BASC to withdraw this PAR.
   This PAR will not appear on future meeting agendas.

G- AI is also assign to Lillian Leung of FirePower Systems and Yongyae Rim 
   on status of ISA PNP binding document- status: open.


5- 1275.0:

  Patent issue to be follow up with TI (refer to action item C above.


6- 1275.1 and 1275.2 (Supplement for IEEE 1754 ISA and Supplement for S-Bus):

 Moving along pretty well, no new status.


7- 1275.3 (VME - IEEE 1014 Bus):

 Uninamous vote to approve current version of  P1275.3 with amendments
 provided to Paktor.  Get to the stage of forming balloting body. AI to 
 Paktor to form it and to Kahn to get help to Paktor to ease the process.


8- 1275.4 (Future Bus +):

 The balloting body was formed. AI: Martin to send the groups approval to 
 the IEEE.


9- 1275.5 (68000):

 AI to Kahn to ask BASC to withdraw this PAR.


10-1275.6 (64-bit extension):

 Walsh spoke with IEEE regarding the formation of the balloting body. No new
 status yet.


11- AI to Kahn to write and distribute on the reflector proposal on wording
 for the new PAR P1275.7 (common practice, minimum requirement for SCSI,
 terminal emulator,...)


12- Bradley proposes to have following new methods:

set-colors (adr    first-index     #indicies)
get-colors (adr    first              #indicies)
color@ (r  g  b  index --)
color! (index  --  r  g  b)
draw-rectangle (adr  x  y  width  height --). Note (x=0, y=0) is the top left position of the rectangle.
Hochsprung will documented this and put on the reflector for everybody to review. This will be included in the P1275.7.


------- End of Forwarded Message


