Date: Mon, 17 Nov 97 10:30:13 -0600
From: "Richard L. Arndt" <rlarndt@austin.ibm.com>
Subject: Item #429: Minutes 11 Nov 97 OFWG

P1275 Openboot Working Group Proposal -- Proposal #:429 Ver 1.0

Title:          Minutes 11 Nov 97 OFWG

Author:         Richard L. Arndt

Date:           13 Nov 1997

Ed/Tech:        Administrative

Synopsis:        Minutes of the 11 Nov 1997  Open Firmware Working
                 Group Meeting Firmworks Mountain View, Ca.



++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

 0- Attendees (OFWG)
   =================

Richard Arndt          IBM         512-838-8502 rlarndt@austin.ibm.com
Mitch Bradley          Firmworks   650-917-6984 wmb@firmworks.com
Ron Hochsprung         Apple/      408-974-2661 ron@apple.com
                       System Arch
David Kahn             Sun         650-786-6203 dmk@eng.sun.com
Tarl Neustaedter       Sun         978-442-0346 tarl@east.sun.com
John Hall              Apple       408-974-6862 jdhall@apple.com
Chris Bellman          Adaptec     408-945-8600 cbellman@corp.adaptec.com

Randy Leberknight      Motorola    602-438-3275 RandyL@phx.mcd.mot.com
Mike Perry             Firmworks   650-917-6986 perry@firmworks.com
Jordan Brown           Sun         310-348-6039 jordan.brown@west.sun.com
John Rible             Sand Piper  408-458-0399 jrible@sandpipers.com
                       Technology
Paul Thomas            Sun         650-786-6388 paul.thomas@eng.sun.com
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++


  1- Establish quorum & Voting rights
     ================================
        A quorum was declared by the working group chair.

  2- Review Agenda:
     ==============
        The agenda was approved with the chair reserving the right to
        reorder items to accommodate participants.

  3- Approve Minutes of 15 July 1997 Meeting (Item # 422 )
     =====================================================
        Approved with the notation of typos.

  4- Future Meetings:
     ================

     The next meeting scheduled:

        Date                    Host Location
        ----                    -------------

        10 Feb 1998             Firmworks Mountain View, CA.

        12 May 1998             Firmworks Mountain View, CA.


  5- Status of Action Items:
     =======================
Item# (See Summary at the end of the minutes for Description etc.)
        Action:
 2      No specific action -- ongoing remains open
 4      Closed due to lack of general interest
 11     Closed due to lack of general interest
 12     Closed due to lack of general interest
 27     To be investigated -- remains open
 28     Closed due to lack of general interest
 30     Closed due to lack of general interest
 32     Completed -- Closed
 33     Continued -- remains open
 34     Completed -- Closed
 35     Continued -- remains open
 36     Combined with #35 -- Closed
 37     Continued -- remains open
 38     Item # 428 see discussion below* -- remains open
 39     Updates made -- republish to playground -- remains open
 40     Continued -- remains open

 S2     Editor presented proposal after some wordsmithing, was authorized
        to submit "Forth Source & FCode Image Support" as an approved
        Recommended Practice. -- Closed
 S4     Closed due to lack of general interest
 S5     Closed due to lack of general interest
 S14    Closed due to lack of general interest
 S17    Closed due to lack of general interest



  * Item # 428 (which replaces #426) Firewire Binding
The following changes were recommended to the author who will present
a revised proposal to the next meeting.
   a) Power management should be handled with a _parallel_ node, with the
      unit offset to the CSR registers. This is similar to how superios are
      handled.
   b) Keep flat address space.
   c) Remove phy-b@ and phy-b!, they need not be exposed.
   d) Remove send-async* and recv-async*, need not be exposed.
   e) Remove reset flag clearing from get-nodeid.
   f) Remove get-nodeid and get-speed, add set-address(guid) This will
      set per-instance values, which are translated and kept up to date
      by parent.
   g) Change remote-xxx to remove addr.3 addr.hi.
   h) rename addr.lo...addr.hi into guid.hi, guid.lo, offset,hi, offset.lo
   i) Move error codes into separate note at top of section. Refer to 1394.
   j) Change name of child node to "unit".

  6- New Proposals:
     ==============
     Item #424 (which supersedes #423) Boot Reply Packet
        Approved:  Editor to revise document (Action Item# 41)

     Item #425 Normative fix of the informative "show-lun" method
        Approved:  Editor of core erata to submit changes (Action Item #42)


     Item #427 USB binding
     =====================
The following changes were recommended, a subcommittee consisting of:
David Kahn, Tarl Neustaedter, John Hall, and Jordan Brown was formed to
rework the conceptual design and post the working draft to playground
for implementation.
    a) Delete root hub
    b) delete device type
    c) Change combined node creation criteria to DC=0 or =9, and eliminate
       requirement #4 for hub. This means most devices will qualify as
       combined nodes. Relocate paragraph to section 3.4.

        7- Action Items Summary:
           =====================

   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | No.|Who         |Description                                    |Status|
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   |  2 |Editors of  |Update document template and contents per      | Open |
   |    |Recommended |discussion.                                    |      |
   |    |Practice    |                                               |      |
   |    |documents   |                                               |      |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   |  4 |Greg H.     |Standard properties document.                  |Closed|
   |    |John H.     |                                               |      |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 11 |Jordan B.   |Reorganize discussion of probing in ISA binding|Closed|
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 12 |Jordan B.   |Suggest wording for IRQ 2 vs 9 ISA binding     |Closed|
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 27 |Jordan B.   |Propose replacement for #323b (withdrawn)      | Open |
   |--- |------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 28 |Ron H.      |Make a proposal for PCI 'hot plug'.            |Closed|
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 30 |Jordan B.   |Make a proposal for a registry for lists of    |Closed|
   |    |            |supported things.                              |      |
   |    |            |(e.g.. kybds, network types, etc.)             |      |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 32 |David K.    |Publish Item #404                              |Closed|
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 33 |David P.    |Propose display-modes property along with      | Open |
   |    |Mitch B.    |set & read display modes methods               |      |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 34 |David K.    |Publish Item #410                              |Closed|
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 35 |Ron H.      |Create formal PCI-IDE device binding document  | Open |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 36 |Ron H.      |Proposal for correcting the limitations on the |Closed|
   |    |            |"reg" property entries specified in the PCI    | Dup  |
   |    |            |binding.                                       | 35   |
   |--- |------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 37 |David P.    |Modify "boilerplate" on VME bus binding.       | Open |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 38 |Tarl N.     |Create a formal 1394 binding                   | Open |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 39 |Richard A.  |Update CHRP source to reflect item #419        | Open |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 40 |Ron H.      |Update PCI  source to reflect item #420        | Open |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 41 |Ron H.      |Update PCI  source to reflect item #424        | New  |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|
   | 41 |Ron H.      |Update Core Erata  to reflect item #425        | New  |
   |----|------------|-----------------------------------------------|------|



 Subcommittee Action Items:
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S2 |Ron H.      | Update and create v1.1 Forth and FCode Rec    |Closed|
   |    |            | Practice                                      |      |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S4 |Richard A.  | Make "shared-bus-master" proposal             |Closed|
   |    |            | (Multi-initiator SCSI)                        |      |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S5 |Ron H.      | Make "chording" proposal                      |Closed|
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   | S14|Jordan B.   | Create a picture to explain sound device      |Closed|
   |    |            | terminology.                                  |      |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   |S17 |Ron H.      |Regenerate a proposal for Mac OS HFS File      |Closed|
   |    |Bruce R.    |system support.                                |      |
   |    |Richard A.  |                                               |      |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
   |S18 |David K.    |Rework proposal #427 for usb binding into a    | New  |
   |    |Tarl N.     |working draft for implementation               |      |
   |    |John H.     |                                               |      |
   |    |Jordon B.   |                                               |      |
   |----|------------|------------------------------------------------------|



[ P1275 Item #429 -- Received: Mon Nov 17 08:32:34 PST 1997 ]

